Genesis40:15 For I was indeed kidnapped out of the land of the Hebrews, and I have done nothing that they should put me in the dungeon.”" 
Genesis43:32 They served him by himself and them by themselves and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat a meal with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians." 
Exodus2:6 When she opened it, she saw the child. And behold, the baby was crying. She had compassion on him and said, “This is one of the Hebrews’ children.”" 
Exodus2:13 When he went out the next day, behold, two men of the Hebrews struggled with each other; and he said to him that did the wrong, “Why do you strike your companion?”" 
Exodus3:18 “They shall listen to your voice, and you shall come, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you must say to him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews has met with us. Therefore, now, let us go, we ask you, three days’ journey into the wilderness so that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God.’" 
Exodus5:3 They said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Let us go, we pray you, three days’ journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest He fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword.”" 
Exodus7:16 Then you are to say to him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you, saying, “Let My people go, so that they may serve Me in the wilderness.” But up to this point you have not listened!" 
Exodus9:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh and speak to him, ‘Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews: Let My people go, so that they may serve Me." 
Exodus9:13 Then the Lord said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews: Let My people go, so that they may serve Me." 
Exodus10:3 Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and said to him, “Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, ‘How long will you refuse to humble yourself before Me? Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
1Samuel4:6 When the Philistines heard the sound of the shout, they said, “What does this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?” Then they understood that the ark of the Lord had come into the camp." 
1Samuel4:9 Be strong and be men, O Philistines, lest you be servants to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Now be men and fight.”" 
1Samuel13:3 Jonathan struck the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear.”" 
1Samuel13:7 Some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. But as for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him, trembling." 
1Samuel13:19 Now there was no blacksmith found throughout all the land of Israel. For the Philistines said, “Lest the Hebrews make for themselves swords or spears.”" 
1Samuel14:11 So the two of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, “Look, the Hebrews are coming out of the caves where they have hidden themselves.”" 
1Samuel14:21 Even the Hebrews who were with the Philistines the days before, who went up with them into the camp from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan." 
1Samuel29:3 Then the princes of the Philistines said, “What are these Hebrews doing here?” And Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul, king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or rather these years? And I have found no fault in him since the day of his desertion to this day.”" 
2Kings16:6 At that time Rezin king of Aram recovered Elath for Aram and expelled the Judeans from Elath. The Edomites came to Elath and live there to this day. 
2Kings25:25 But in the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal line, came with ten men and struck down Gedaliah. He died along with the Judeans and Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah." 
1Chronicles4:18 His Judean wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soko, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. So these were the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took." 
2Chronicles24:24 Though the Aramean army came with a few men, the Lord delivered into their hand a very great Judean army because they abandoned the Lord God of their fathers. So they enacted judgment on Joash." 
2Chronicles25:13 But the men of the military party that Amaziah turned back from going with him in battle raided the cities of Judah from Samaria to Beth-horon. They struck down three thousand Judeans and took a great amount of plunder. 
2Chronicles32:18 And they proclaimed it also in a loud voice in the Judean language against the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall to frighten and terrify them in order to capture the city. 
Psalms37:37 Mark the blameless man, and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace." 
Matthew1:1 The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham:" 
Matthew1:2 Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers." 
Matthew1:3 Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram." 
Matthew1:4 Ram was the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon." 
Matthew1:5 Salmon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse." 
Matthew1:6 Jesse was the father of David the king. David the king was the father of Solomon, by her who had been the wife of Uriah." 
Matthew1:7 Solomon was the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asa." 
Matthew1:8 Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah." 
Matthew1:9 Uzziah was the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah." 
Matthew1:10 Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, and Amon the father of Josiah." 
Matthew1:11 Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers about the time they were exiled to Babylon. 
Matthew1:12 And after they were brought to Babylon, Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel." 
Matthew1:13 Zerubbabel was the father of Abiud, Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor." 
Matthew1:14 Azor was the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Akim, and Akim the father of Eliud." 
Matthew1:15 Eliud was the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob." 
Matthew1:16 And Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ." 
Matthew1:17 So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, from David until the exile to Babylon are fourteen generations, and from the exile in Babylon to Christ are fourteen generations." 
Matthew1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ happened this way: After His mother Mary was engaged to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child by the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew1:19 Then Joseph her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, had in mind to divorce her privately." 
Matthew1:20 But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream saying, “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for He who is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew1:21 She will bear a Son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for He will save His people from their sins.”" 
Matthew1:22 Now all this occurred to fulfill what the Lord had spoken through the prophet, saying," 
Matthew1:23 “Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and will bear a Son, and they shall call His name Immanuel,” which is interpreted, “God with us.”" 
Matthew1:24 Then Joseph, being awakened from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and remained with his wife," 
Matthew1:25 and did not know her until she had given birth to her firstborn Son. And he called His name Jesus. 
Matthew2:1 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men came from the east to Jerusalem," 
Matthew2:1 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men came from the east to Jerusalem," 
Matthew2:2 saying, “Where is He who was born King of the Jews? For we have seen His star in the east and have come to worship Him.”" 
Matthew2:3 When Herod the king heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him." 
Matthew2:4 And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where Christ should be born." 
Matthew2:5 They told him, “In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is what the prophet wrote:" 
Matthew2:5 They told him, “In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is what the prophet wrote:" 
Matthew2:6 ‘And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are no longer least among the princes of Judah; for out of you shall come a ruler, who will shepherd My people Israel.’ ”" 
Matthew2:7 Then Herod, when he had privately called the wise men, carefully inquired of them what time the star appeared." 
Matthew2:8 And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, “Go and search diligently for the young Child, and when you have found Him, bring me word again, so that I may come and worship Him also.”" 
Matthew2:9 When they heard the king, they departed. And behold, the star which they saw in the east went before them until it came and stood over where the young Child was." 
Matthew2:10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced with great excitement." 
Matthew2:11 And when they came into the house, they saw the young Child with Mary, His mother, and fell down and worshipped Him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to Him: gold, frankincense, and myrrh." 
Matthew2:12 But being warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they returned to their own country by another route." 
Matthew2:13 Now when they departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, “Arise, take the young Child and His mother, and escape to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word. For Herod will seek the young Child to kill Him.”" 
Matthew2:14 When he rose, he took the young Child and His mother by night, and departed into Egypt," 
Matthew2:15 and remained there until the death of Herod, to fulfill what the Lord had spoken through the prophet, “Out of Egypt I have called My Son.”" 
Matthew2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, was utterly furious and sent forth and killed all the male children who were in Bethlehem and the surrounding region, from two years old and under, based on the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise men." 
Matthew2:17 Then was fulfilled what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet: 
Matthew2:18 “In Ramah a voice was heard, grieving and weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and she would not be comforted, because they are no more.”" 
Matthew2:19 But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt," 
Matthew2:20 saying, “Arise, take the young Child and His mother, and go into the land of Israel, for those who sought the young Child’s life are dead.”" 
Matthew2:21 And he rose, took the young Child and His mother, and came into the land of Israel." 
Matthew2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus reigned in Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Nevertheless, being warned by God in a dream, he withdrew to the region of Galilee." 
Matthew2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus reigned in Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Nevertheless, being warned by God in a dream, he withdrew to the region of Galilee." 
Matthew2:23 And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, “He shall be called a Nazarene.”" 
Matthew3:1 In those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea," 
Matthew3:1 In those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea," 
Matthew3:1 In those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea," 
Matthew3:2 and saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”" 
Matthew3:3 For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying: “The voice of one crying in the wilderness: ‘Prepare the way of the Lord; make His paths straight.’ ”" 
Matthew3:4 This same John had clothing made of camel’s hair, a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey." 
Matthew3:4 This same John had clothing made of camel’s hair, a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey." 
Matthew3:5 Then Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him," 
Matthew3:5 Then Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him," 
Matthew3:6 and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins." 
Matthew3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said to them, “You brood of vipers, who has warned you to escape from the wrath to come?" 
Matthew3:8 Therefore, bear fruit worthy of repentance," 
Matthew3:9 and do not think to say within yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father,’ for I say to you that God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham." 
Matthew3:10 Even now the axe is put to the tree roots. Therefore, every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire." 
Matthew3:11 “I indeed baptize you with water to repentance, but He who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire." 
Matthew3:12 His winnowing fork is in His hand, and He will thoroughly clean His floor and gather His wheat into the granary, but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.”" 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. 
Matthew3:14 But John prohibited Him, saying, “I need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?”" 
Matthew3:14 But John prohibited Him, saying, “I need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?”" 
Matthew3:15 But Jesus answered him, “Let it be so now, for it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he permitted Him." 
Matthew3:16 And when Jesus was baptized, He came up immediately out of the water; and behold, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending on Him like a dove." 
Matthew3:17 And behold, a voice came from heaven, saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”" 
Matthew4:1 Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil. 
Matthew4:2 And He had fasted for forty days and forty nights, and then He was hungry." 
Matthew4:3 And the tempter came to Him and said, “If You are the Son of God, command that these stones be turned into bread.”" 
Matthew4:4 But He answered, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.’ ”" 
Matthew4:5 Then the devil took Him up into the holy city, and set Him on the highest point of the temple," 
Matthew4:6 and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down. For it is written, ‘He shall give His angels charge concerning you,’ and ‘In their hands they shall lift you up, lest at any time you dash your foot against a stone.’ ”" 
Matthew4:7 Jesus said to him, “It is also written, ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God.’ ”" 
Matthew4:8 Again, the devil took Him up on a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their grandeur," 
Matthew4:9 and said to Him, “All these things I will give You if You will fall down and worship me.”" 
Matthew4:10 Then Jesus said to him, “Get away from here, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.’ ”" 
Matthew4:11 Then the devil left Him, and behold, angels came and ministered to Him." 
Matthew4:12 Now when Jesus heard that John was put in prison, He left for Galilee." 
Matthew4:12 Now when Jesus heard that John was put in prison, He left for Galilee." 
Matthew4:13 And leaving Nazareth, He came and lived in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali," 
Matthew4:14 that what was spoken by Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying:" 
Matthew4:15 “The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way to the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles:" 
Matthew4:16 The people who sat in darkness saw great light. And on those who sat in the land of the shadow of death, light has dawned.”" 
Matthew4:17 From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, “Repent! For the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”" 
Matthew4:18 As Jesus walked beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, throwing a net into the sea, for they were fishermen." 
Matthew4:19 And He said to them, “Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men.”" 
Matthew4:20 They immediately left their nets and followed Him. 
Matthew4:21 And going on from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in a boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and He called them." 
Matthew4:21 And going on from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in a boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and He called them." 
Matthew4:21 And going on from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in a boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and He called them." 
Matthew4:22 They immediately left the boat and their father and followed Him. 
Matthew4:23 Jesus went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and all sorts of diseases among the people." 
Matthew4:24 His fame went throughout all Syria. And they brought to Him all sick people who were taken with various diseases and tormented with pain, those who were possessed with demons, those who had seizures, and those who had paralysis, and He healed them." 
Matthew4:25 Great crowds followed Him from Galilee, the Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and from beyond the Jordan." 
Matthew4:25 Great crowds followed Him from Galilee, the Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and from beyond the Jordan." 
Matthew5:1 Now seeing the crowds, He went up on a mountain. And when He sat down, His disciples came to Him." 
Matthew5:2 And He began speaking and taught them, saying:" 
Matthew5:3 “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:4 Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted." 
Matthew5:5 Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." 
Matthew5:6 Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled." 
Matthew5:7 Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." 
Matthew5:8 Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." 
Matthew5:9 Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God." 
Matthew5:10 Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:11 “Blessed are you when men revile you and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for My sake." 
Matthew5:12 Rejoice and be very glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in this manner they persecuted the prophets who were before you." 
Matthew5:13 “You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its saltiness, how shall it be made salty? It is from then on good for nothing but to be thrown out and to be trampled underfoot by men." 
Matthew5:14 “You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. 
Matthew5:15 Neither do men light a candle and put it under a basket, but on a candlestick. And it gives light to all who are in the house." 
Matthew5:16 Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew5:17 “Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill." 
Matthew5:18 For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not one dot or one mark will pass from the law until all be fulfilled." 
Matthew5:19 Whoever, therefore, breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do likewise shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:20 For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will in no way enter the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:21 “You have heard that it was said by the ancients, ‘You shall not murder,’ and ‘Whoever murders shall be in danger of the judgment.’" 
Matthew5:22 But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother, ‘Raca,’ shall be in danger of the Sanhedrin. But whoever says, ‘You fool,’ shall be in danger of the hell of fire." 
Matthew5:23 “Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you," 
Matthew5:24 leave your gift there before the altar and go on your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift." 
Matthew5:25 “Reconcile with your adversary quickly, while you are on the way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be thrown into prison." 
Matthew5:26 Truly I say to you, you will by no means come out of there until you have paid the last penny." 
Matthew5:27 “You have heard that it was said by the ancients, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’" 
Matthew5:28 But I say to you that whoever looks on a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart. 
Matthew5:29 And if your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and throw it away. For it is profitable that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body be thrown into hell." 
Matthew5:30 And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body be thrown into hell." 
Matthew5:31 “It was said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.’" 
Matthew5:32 But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual unfaithfulness, causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery." 
Matthew5:33 “Again, you have heard that it was said by the ancients, ‘You shall not swear falsely, but shall fulfill your oaths to the Lord.’" 
Matthew5:34 But I say to you, do not swear at all: neither by heaven, for it is God’s throne;" 
Matthew5:35 nor by the earth, for it is His footstool; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King." 
Matthew5:36 Nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black." 
Matthew5:37 But let your ‘Yes’ mean ‘Yes,’ and ‘No’ mean ‘No.’ For whatever is more than these comes from the evil one." 
Matthew5:38 “You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’" 
Matthew5:39 But I say to you, do not resist an evil person. But whoever strikes you on your right cheek, turn to him the other as well." 
Matthew5:40 And if anyone sues you in a court of law and takes away your tunic, let him have your cloak also." 
Matthew5:41 And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two." 
Matthew5:42 Give to him who asks you, and from him who would borrow from you do not turn away." 
Matthew5:43 “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’" 
Matthew5:44 But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you," 
Matthew5:45 that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. 
Matthew5:46 For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?" 
Matthew5:47 And if you greet your brothers only, what are you doing more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do so?" 
Matthew5:48 Therefore be complete, even as your Father who is in heaven is complete." 
Matthew6:1 “Be sure that you do not do your righteous deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew6:2 “Therefore, when you do your charitable deeds, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be honored by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward." 
Matthew6:3 But when you do your charitable deeds, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing," 
Matthew6:4 so that your righteous deeds may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will Himself reward you openly. 
Matthew6:5 “When you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites. For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward." 
Matthew6:6 But you, when you pray, enter your closet, and when you have shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly." 
Matthew6:7 But when you pray, do not use vain repetitions, as the heathen do. For they think that they will be heard for their much speaking." 
Matthew6:8 Do not be like them, for your Father knows what things you have need of before you ask Him." 
Matthew6:9 “Pray then in this manner: Our Father, who is in heaven, hallowed be Your name." 
Matthew6:10 Your kingdom come; Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." 
Matthew6:11 Give us this day our daily bread. 
Matthew6:12 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." 
Matthew6:13 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen." 
Matthew6:14 For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you." 
Matthew6:15 But if you do not forgive men for their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses." 
Matthew6:16 “Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites with a sad countenance. For they disfigure their faces so they may appear to men to be fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward." 
Matthew6:17 But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face," 
Matthew6:18 so that you will not appear to men to be fasting, but to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly." 
Matthew6:19 “Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. 
Matthew6:20 But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroy and where thieves do not break in nor steal," 
Matthew6:21 for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." 
Matthew6:22 “The light of the body is the eye. Therefore, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light." 
Matthew6:23 But if your eye is unhealthy, your whole body will be full of darkness. Therefore, if the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness!" 
Matthew6:24 “No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money." 
Matthew6:25 “Therefore, I say to you, take no thought about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body than clothing?" 
Matthew6:26 Look at the birds of the air, for they do not sow, nor do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much better than they?" 
Matthew6:27 Who among you by taking thought can add one cubit to his stature? 
Matthew6:28 “Why take thought about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither spin nor weave." 
Matthew6:29 Yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not dressed like one of these. 
Matthew6:30 Therefore, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is here and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will He not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?" 
Matthew6:31 Therefore, take no thought, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’" 
Matthew6:32 For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things." 
Matthew6:33 But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be given to you." 
Matthew6:34 Therefore, take no thought about tomorrow, for tomorrow will take thought about the things of itself. Sufficient to the day is the trouble thereof." 
Matthew7:1 “Judge not, that you be not judged." 
Matthew7:2 For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured again for you." 
Matthew7:3 “And why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not consider the log that is in your own eye?" 
Matthew7:4 Or how will you say to your brother, ‘Let me pull the speck out of your eye,’ when a log is in your own eye?" 
Matthew7:5 You hypocrite! First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye." 
Matthew7:6 “Do not give what is holy to the dogs, nor throw your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn around and attack you." 
Matthew7:7 “Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and it will be opened to you. 
Matthew7:8 For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened." 
Matthew7:9 “What man is there among you who, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone?" 
Matthew7:10 Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a snake?" 
Matthew7:11 If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask Him!" 
Matthew7:12 Therefore, everything you would like men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets." 
Matthew7:13 “Enter at the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who are going through it," 
Matthew7:14 because small is the gate and narrow is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it." 
Matthew7:15 “Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves." 
Matthew7:16 You will know them by their fruit. Do men gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?" 
Matthew7:17 Even so, every good tree bears good fruit. But a corrupt tree bears evil fruit." 
Matthew7:18 A good tree cannot bear evil fruit, nor can a corrupt tree bear good fruit." 
Matthew7:19 Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
Matthew7:20 Therefore, by their fruit you will know them." 
Matthew7:21 “Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew7:22 Many will say to Me on that day, ‘Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in Your name, cast out demons in Your name, and done many wonderful works in Your name?’" 
Matthew7:23 But then I will declare to them, ‘I never knew you. Depart from Me, you who practice evil.’" 
Matthew7:24 “Whoever hears these sayings of Mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on a rock." 
Matthew7:25 And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house. And it did not fall, for it was founded on a rock." 
Matthew7:26 And everyone who hears these sayings of Mine and does not do them will be likened to a foolish man who built his house on the sand. 
Matthew7:27 And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house. And it fell. And its fall was great.”" 
Matthew7:28 When Jesus finished these sayings, the people were astonished at His teaching," 
Matthew7:29 for He taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes." 
Matthew8:1 When He came down from the mountains, large crowds followed Him." 
Matthew8:2 And behold, a leper came and worshipped Him, saying, “Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean.”" 
Matthew8:3 Jesus reached out His hand and touched him, saying, “I will. Be clean.” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed." 
Matthew8:4 Then Jesus said to him, “See that you tell no one. But go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded as a testimony to them.”" 
Matthew8:5 And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to Him, entreating Him," 
Matthew8:6 and saying, “Lord, my servant is lying at home, sick with paralysis, terribly tormented.”" 
Matthew8:7 Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.”" 
Matthew8:8 The centurion answered, “Lord, I am not worthy that You should come under my roof. But speak the word only, and my servant will be healed." 
Matthew8:9 For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this man, ‘Go,’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes, and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”" 
Matthew8:10 When Jesus heard it, He was amazed and said to those who followed, “Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith, no, not in Israel." 
Matthew8:11 And I say to you that many will come from the east and west and will dine with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew8:12 But the sons of the kingdom will be thrown out into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 
Matthew8:13 Then Jesus said to the centurion, “Go your way. And as you have believed, so let it be done for you.” And his servant was healed that very moment." 
Matthew8:14 When Jesus entered Peter’s house, He saw his wife’s mother, lying sick with a fever." 
Matthew8:15 He touched her hand, and the fever left her. And she rose and served them." 
Matthew8:16 When the evening came, they brought to Him many who were possessed with demons. And He cast out the spirits with His word, and healed all who were sick," 
Matthew8:17 to fulfill what was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, “He Himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses.”" 
Matthew8:18 Now when Jesus saw large crowds around Him, He gave a command to depart to the other side." 
Matthew8:19 Then a certain scribe came and said to Him, “Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.”" 
Matthew8:20 Jesus replied, “The foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay His head.”" 
Matthew8:21 Another of His other disciples said to Him, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.”" 
Matthew8:22 But Jesus said to him, “Follow Me, and let the dead bury their dead.”" 
Matthew8:23 Then He entered the boat, and His disciples followed Him." 
Matthew8:24 And behold, a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves. But He was asleep." 
Matthew8:25 His disciples went to Him and awoke Him, saying, “Lord, save us! We are perishing!”" 
Matthew8:26 He replied, “Why are you fearful, O you of little faith?” Then He rose and rebuked the winds and the sea. And there was a great calm." 
Matthew8:27 The men were amazed, saying, “What kind of Man is this that even the winds and the sea obey Him!”" 
Matthew8:28 When He came to the other side into the country of the Gergesenes, there met Him two men possessed with demons, coming out of the tombs, extremely fierce, so that no one might pass by that way." 
Matthew8:29 And behold, they cried out, saying, “What have we to do with You, Jesus, Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?”" 
Matthew8:30 Now a good way off from them was a herd of many swine feeding. 
Matthew8:31 So the demons begged Him, saying, “If You cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of swine.”" 
Matthew8:32 He said to them, “Go!” And when they came out, they went into the herd of swine. And suddenly the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and perished in the waters." 
Matthew8:33 Those who kept them fled, and went their ways into the city, and told everything, including what had happened to those possessed by the demons." 
Matthew8:34 And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw Him, they begged Him to depart out of their region." 
Matthew9:1 He entered a boat, crossed over, and came into His own city." 
Matthew9:2 And behold, they brought to Him a man sick with paralysis, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, “Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you.”" 
Matthew9:3 And behold, certain scribes said within themselves, “This Man blasphemes.”" 
Matthew9:4 Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts?" 
Matthew9:5 For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you’ or to say, ‘Arise and walk’?" 
Matthew9:6 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins” —then He said to the paralytic, “Arise, pick up your bed, and go into your house.”" 
Matthew9:7 And he rose and departed to his house. 
Matthew9:8 But when the crowds saw it, they were amazed and glorified God who had given such authority to men." 
Matthew9:9 As Jesus passed on from there, He saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector’s station. And He said to him, “Follow Me.” And he rose and followed Him." 
Matthew9:10 While Jesus sat at supper in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with Him and His disciples." 
Matthew9:11 When the Pharisees saw it, they said to His disciples, “Why does your Teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”" 
Matthew9:12 But when Jesus heard that, He said to them, “Those who are well do not need a physician, but those who are sick." 
Matthew9:13 But go and learn what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.’ For I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance.”" 
Matthew9:14 Then the disciples of John came to Him, asking, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Matthew9:14 Then the disciples of John came to Him, asking, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Matthew9:15 Jesus answered, “Can the guests of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast." 
Matthew9:16 “No one sews a piece of new cloth into an old garment, for that which is sewn in to fill it up pulls on the garment, and the tear is made worse." 
Matthew9:17 Neither do men put new wine into old wineskins. Or else the wineskins burst, the wine runs out, and the wineskins perish. But they put new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved.”" 
Matthew9:18 While He was speaking these things to them, behold, a certain ruler came and worshipped Him, saying, “My daughter is even now dead. But come and lay Your hand on her, and she will live.”" 
Matthew9:19 Jesus rose and followed him, and so did His disciples." 
Matthew9:20 And behold, a woman, who was ill with a flow of blood for twelve years, came behind Him and touched the hem of His garment." 
Matthew9:21 For she said within herself, “If I may just touch His garment, I shall be healed.”" 
Matthew9:22 But Jesus turned around, and when He saw her, He said, “Daughter, be of good comfort. Your faith has made you well.” And the woman was made well instantly." 
Matthew9:23 When Jesus came to the ruler’s house and saw the musicians and the mourners making a noise," 
Matthew9:24 He said to them, “Depart. The girl is not dead, but is sleeping.” And they laughed Him to scorn." 
Matthew9:25 But when the people were put outside, He went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose." 
Matthew9:26 The news of this went out into all that land. 
Matthew9:27 As Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed Him, crying out and saying, “Son of David, have mercy on us!”" 
Matthew9:28 When He entered the house, the blind men came to Him. And Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They said to Him, “Yes, Lord.”" 
Matthew9:29 Then He touched their eyes, saying, “According to your faith, let it be done for you.”" 
Matthew9:30 And their eyes were opened, and Jesus strictly commanded them, saying, “See that no one knows of it.”" 
Matthew9:31 But when they had departed, they spread His fame in all that region." 
Matthew9:32 As they went out, behold, they brought to Him a mute man possessed with a demon." 
Matthew9:33 And when the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke, and the crowds were amazed, saying, “This has never been seen in Israel.”" 
Matthew9:34 But the Pharisees said, “He casts out demons through the ruler of the demons.”" 
Matthew9:35 Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people." 
Matthew9:36 But when He saw the crowds, He was moved with compassion for them, because they fainted and were scattered, like sheep without a shepherd." 
Matthew9:37 Then He said to His disciples, “The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few." 
Matthew9:38 Therefore, pray to the Lord of the harvest, that He will send out laborers into His harvest.”" 
Matthew10:1 He called His twelve disciples to Him and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease." 
Matthew10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother; James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother;" 
Matthew10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother; James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother;" 
Matthew10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother; James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother;" 
Matthew10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew, the tax collector; James, the son of Alphaeus; and Lebbaeus, whose name was Thaddaeus;" 
Matthew10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew, the tax collector; James, the son of Alphaeus; and Lebbaeus, whose name was Thaddaeus;" 
Matthew10:4 Simon the Zealot; and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him." 
Matthew10:5 These twelve Jesus sent out, and commanded them, saying, “Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any city of the Samaritans." 
Matthew10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
Matthew10:7 As you go, preach, saying, ‘The kingdom of heaven is at hand.’" 
Matthew10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, and cast out demons. Freely you have received, freely give." 
Matthew10:9 “Provide neither gold nor silver nor copper for your belts," 
Matthew10:10 nor bag for your journey, nor two tunics, nor shoes, nor even staffs. For the workman is worthy of his keep." 
Matthew10:11 “In whatever city or town you enter, inquire in it who is worthy. And live there until you leave." 
Matthew10:12 When you come into a house, greet it." 
Matthew10:13 If the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you." 
Matthew10:14 Whoever will not receive you, nor hear your words, when you depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet." 
Matthew10:15 Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah on the Day of Judgment than for that town." 
Matthew10:16 “Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves." 
Matthew10:17 But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues." 
Matthew10:18 You will be brought before rulers and kings for My sake, for a testimony against them and the Gentiles." 
Matthew10:19 But when they deliver you up, take no thought of how or what you will speak. For it will be given you at that time what you will speak." 
Matthew10:20 For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks through you." 
Matthew10:21 “The brother will deliver up the brother to death, and the father the child. And the children will rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death." 
Matthew10:22 You will be hated by all men for My name’s sake. But he who endures to the end will be saved. 
Matthew10:23 But when they persecute you in this city, escape into another. For truly I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes." 
Matthew10:24 “The disciple is not above his teacher, nor the servant above his master." 
Matthew10:25 It is enough for the disciple that he be like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more will they call those of his household?" 
Matthew10:26 “Therefore do not fear them. For nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known." 
Matthew10:27 What I tell you in darkness, speak in the light. And what you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops." 
Matthew10:28 Do not fear those who kill the body but are not able to kill the soul. But rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. 
Matthew10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father. 
Matthew10:30 But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. 
Matthew10:31 Therefore do not fear. You are more valuable than many sparrows. 
Matthew10:32 “Whoever will confess Me before men, him will I confess also before My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew10:33 But whoever will deny Me before men, him will I also deny before My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew10:34 “Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword." 
Matthew10:35 For I have come to turn ‘a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;" 
Matthew10:36 a man’s foes will be those of his own household.’ 
Matthew10:37 “He who loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me. And he who loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me. 
Matthew10:38 And He who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me. 
Matthew10:39 He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for My sake will find it." 
Matthew10:40 “He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me." 
Matthew10:41 He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet’s reward. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man’s reward. 
Matthew10:42 And whoever gives even a cup of cold water to one of these little ones in the name of a disciple, truly I tell you, he shall in no way lose his reward.”" 
Matthew11:1 When Jesus finished instructing His twelve disciples, He departed from there to teach and to preach in their cities." 
Matthew11:2 Now when John had heard in prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples," 
Matthew11:2 Now when John had heard in prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples," 
Matthew11:3 and said to Him, “Are You He who should come, or should we look for another?”" 
Matthew11:4 Jesus answered them, “Go and tell John what you hear and see:" 
Matthew11:4 Jesus answered them, “Go and tell John what you hear and see:" 
Matthew11:5 The blind receive their sight and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them." 
Matthew11:6 Blessed is he who does not fall away because of Me.” 
Matthew11:7 As they departed, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Matthew11:7 As they departed, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Matthew11:8 What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings’ houses." 
Matthew11:9 Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and more than a prophet." 
Matthew11:10 For this is he of whom it is written: ‘Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.’" 
Matthew11:11 Truly I say to you, among those who are born of women, there has risen no one greater than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he." 
Matthew11:11 Truly I say to you, among those who are born of women, there has risen no one greater than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he." 
Matthew11:12 From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has forcefully advanced, and the strong take it by force." 
Matthew11:12 From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has forcefully advanced, and the strong take it by force." 
Matthew11:13 For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John. 
Matthew11:13 For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John. 
Matthew11:14 And if you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah, who is to come." 
Matthew11:15 He who has ears to hear, let him hear." 
Matthew11:16 “But to what shall I liken this generation? It is like children sitting in the markets, calling to their friends," 
Matthew11:17 saying: ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge to you, and you did not mourn.’" 
Matthew11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’" 
Matthew11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’" 
Matthew11:19 The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Here is a gluttonous man, a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ But wisdom is justified by her children.”" 
Matthew11:20 Then He began to reprimand the cities where most of His mighty works were done, because they did not repent:" 
Matthew11:21 “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes." 
Matthew11:22 But I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the Day of Judgment than for you." 
Matthew11:23 And you, Capernaum, who is exalted toward heaven, will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works which have been done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day." 
Matthew11:24 But I say to you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom on the Day of Judgment than for you.” 
Matthew11:25 At that time Jesus said, “I thank You, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and revealed them to infants." 
Matthew11:26 Even so, Father, for it seemed good in Your sight." 
Matthew11:27 “All things are delivered to Me by My Father, and no one knows the Son, except the Father. And no one knows the Father, except the Son and he to whom the Son will reveal Him." 
Matthew11:28 “Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest." 
Matthew11:29 Take My yoke upon you, and learn from Me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls." 
Matthew11:30 For My yoke is easy, and My burden is light.”" 
Matthew12:1 At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. And His disciples were hungry and began to pluck the heads of grain and to eat. 
Matthew12:2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to Him, “Look, Your disciples are doing that which is not lawful to do on the Sabbath!”" 
Matthew12:3 But He said to them, “Have you not read what David and those who were with him did when he was hungry," 
Matthew12:4 how he entered the house of God and ate the ritual bread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for those who were with him, but only for the priests?" 
Matthew12:5 Or have you not read in the law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath, but are blameless?" 
Matthew12:6 I say to you, in this place there is One who is greater than the temple." 
Matthew12:7 If you had known what this meant, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’ you would not have condemned the innocent." 
Matthew12:8 For the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.” 
Matthew12:9 When He had departed from there, He went into their synagogue." 
Matthew12:10 And there was a man whose hand had withered. They asked Him, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?” that they might accuse Him." 
Matthew12:11 He said to them, “What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out?" 
Matthew12:12 Then how much better is a man than a sheep? Therefore, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”" 
Matthew12:13 Then He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and it was restored whole like the other." 
Matthew12:14 Then the Pharisees went out and took counsel against Him, how they might kill Him." 
Matthew12:15 But when Jesus knew it, He withdrew from there. And great crowds followed Him, and He healed them all," 
Matthew12:16 and warned them that they should not make Him known," 
Matthew12:17 to fulfill what was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying:" 
Matthew12:18 “Behold, My Servant, whom I have chosen, My Beloved, in whom My soul is well pleased; I will put My Spirit upon Him, and He will render judgment to the Gentiles." 
Matthew12:19 He shall not struggle nor cry out, nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets." 
Matthew12:20 A bruised reed He will not break, and a smoldering wick He will not quench, until He renders judgment unto victory;" 
Matthew12:21 and in His name will the Gentiles trust.” 
Matthew12:22 Then one possessed with a demon was brought to Him, blind and mute, and He healed him, so that the blind and mute man both spoke and saw." 
Matthew12:23 All the people were amazed and said, “Is He not the Son of David?”" 
Matthew12:24 But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, “This Man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebub the ruler of the demons.”" 
Matthew12:25 Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand." 
Matthew12:26 If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. Then how will his kingdom stand?" 
Matthew12:27 And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges." 
Matthew12:28 But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you." 
Matthew12:29 “Or else how can one enter a strong man’s house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man? And then he will plunder his house. 
Matthew12:30 “He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters abroad." 
Matthew12:31 Therefore I say to you, all kinds of sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven men." 
Matthew12:32 Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, neither in this age, nor in the age to come." 
Matthew12:33 “Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and its fruit corrupt. For the tree is known by its fruit." 
Matthew12:34 O generation of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks." 
Matthew12:35 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good things. And an evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth evil things. 
Matthew12:36 But I say to you that for every idle word that men speak, they will give an account on the Day of Judgment." 
Matthew12:37 For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”" 
Matthew12:38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees said to Him, “Teacher, we wish to see a sign from You.”" 
Matthew12:39 But He answered them, “An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth." 
Matthew12:41 The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, One greater than Jonah is here." 
Matthew12:42 The Queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, something greater than Solomon is here." 
Matthew12:43 “When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, it passes through dry places seeking rest, but finds none." 
Matthew12:44 Then it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’ And when it comes, it finds it empty, swept, and put in order." 
Matthew12:45 Then it goes and brings with itself seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that man is worse than the first. So shall it be also with this evil generation.”" 
Matthew12:46 While He was still speaking to the people, behold, His mother and His brothers stood outside asking to speak with Him." 
Matthew12:47 Then one said to Him, “Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside asking to speak with You.”" 
Matthew12:48 But to the man who told him this, He replied, “Who is My mother, and who are My brothers?”" 
Matthew12:49 He stretched out His hand toward His disciples and said, “Here are My mother and My brothers!" 
Matthew12:50 For whoever does the will of My Father who is in heaven is My brother, and sister, and mother.”" 
Matthew13:1 That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea. 
Matthew13:2 Great crowds assembled around Him, so that He went into a boat and sat there. And the whole assembly stood on the shore." 
Matthew13:3 Then He told them many things in parables, saying, “A sower went out to sow." 
Matthew13:4 While he sowed, some seeds fell beside the path, and the birds came and devoured them." 
Matthew13:5 But other seeds fell on rocky ground where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, because they did not have deep soil." 
Matthew13:6 But when the sun rose, they were scorched. And because they did not take root, they withered away." 
Matthew13:7 Some seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them." 
Matthew13:8 But other seeds fell into good ground and produced grain: a hundred, sixty, or thirty times as much." 
Matthew13:9 Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Matthew13:10 The disciples came and said to Him, “Why do You speak to them in parables?”" 
Matthew13:11 He answered them, “It is given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given." 
Matthew13:12 For to him who has, will more be given, and he will have abundance. But from him who has not, even what he has will be taken away." 
Matthew13:13 Therefore I speak to them in parables: ‘Because they look, but do not see. And they listen, but they do not hear, neither do they understand.’" 
Matthew13:14 In them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah which says: ‘By hearing, you will hear and shall not understand, and seeing, you will see and shall not perceive;" 
Matthew13:15 for this people’s heart has grown dull. Their ears have become hard of hearing, and they have closed their eyes, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts, and turn, and I should heal them.’" 
Matthew13:16 But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear." 
Matthew13:17 For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which you see, and have not seen them, and to hear those things which you hear, and have not heard them." 
Matthew13:18 “Therefore listen to the parable of the sower. 
Matthew13:19 When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the one who received seed beside the path." 
Matthew13:20 But he who received the seed on rocky ground is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy," 
Matthew13:21 yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while. For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, eventually he falls away." 
Matthew13:22 He also who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, but the cares of this age and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful." 
Matthew13:23 But he who received seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it, who indeed bears fruit. Some produce a hundred, sixty, or thirty times what was sown.”" 
Matthew13:24 He told them another parable, saying, “The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field." 
Matthew13:25 But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away." 
Matthew13:26 But when the shoots had sprung up and produced fruit, the weeds also appeared." 
Matthew13:27 “So the servants of the landowner came and said to him, ‘Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? Then where did the weeds come from?’" 
Matthew13:28 “He said to them, ‘An enemy did this.’ “The servants said to him, ‘Will you then have us go and gather them up?’" 
Matthew13:29 “But he said, ‘No, lest while you gather up the weeds, you pull up also the wheat with them." 
Matthew13:30 Let both grow together until the harvest, and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers: Gather up the weeds first and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn.’ ”" 
Matthew13:31 He told them another parable, saying, “The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took and sowed in his field." 
Matthew13:32 This indeed is the least of all seeds, but when it has grown, it is the greatest among herbs and is a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in its branches.”" 
Matthew13:33 He told them another parable: “The kingdom of heaven is like yeast which a woman took and mixed in sixty pounds of meal until it had leavened the whole batch.” 
Matthew13:34 Jesus said all these things to the crowds in parables. And without a parable He did not speak to them," 
Matthew13:35 to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying: “I will open My mouth in parables; I will say things which have been kept secret since the foundation of the world.”" 
Matthew13:36 Then Jesus sent the crowds away and went into the house. And His disciples came to Him, saying, “Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field.”" 
Matthew13:37 He answered, “He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man," 
Matthew13:38 the field is the world, and the good seed are the sons of the kingdom. But the weeds are the sons of the evil one." 
Matthew13:39 The enemy who sowed them is the devil, the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels." 
Matthew13:40 “Therefore as the weeds are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in the end of this age." 
Matthew13:41 The Son of Man shall send out His angels, and they shall gather out of His kingdom all things that offend, and those who do evil," 
Matthew13:42 and will throw them into a fiery furnace. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew13:43 Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear." 
Matthew13:44 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and hid. And with joy over it he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field." 
Matthew13:45 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking beautiful pearls," 
Matthew13:46 who, on finding one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it." 
Matthew13:47 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was cast into the sea and gathered all kinds of fish." 
Matthew13:48 When it was full, they drew it to shore, sat down, and gathered the good into baskets, but threw the bad away." 
Matthew13:49 So shall it be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous 
Matthew13:50 and throw them into the fiery furnace. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.” 
Matthew13:51 Jesus said to them, “Have you understood all of these things?” They said to Him, “Yes, Lord.”" 
Matthew13:52 Then He said to them, “Therefore every scribe who is discipled for the kingdom of heaven is like a man who is master of the household who brings out of his treasure new and old things.”" 
Matthew13:53 When Jesus finished these parables, He departed from there." 
Matthew13:54 When He came to His own country, He taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, “Where did this Man get this wisdom and these mighty works?" 
Matthew13:55 Is He not the carpenter’s son? Is His mother not called Mary? And are not His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? 
Matthew13:55 Is He not the carpenter’s son? Is His mother not called Mary? And are not His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? 
Matthew13:56 And His sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this Man get all these things?”" 
Matthew13:57 And they took offense at Him. But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and in his own house.”" 
Matthew13:58 And He did not do many mighty works there, because of their unbelief." 
Matthew14:1 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus," 
Matthew14:2 and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead. And therefore mighty works are at work in him.”" 
Matthew14:2 and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead. And therefore mighty works are at work in him.”" 
Matthew14:3 For Herod had laid hold of John, bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife." 
Matthew14:3 For Herod had laid hold of John, bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife." 
Matthew14:4 For John said to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”" 
Matthew14:4 For John said to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”" 
Matthew14:5 When Herod would have put him to death, he feared the crowd, because they counted him as a prophet." 
Matthew14:6 But when Herod’s birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod." 
Matthew14:7 Therefore he promised with an oath to give her whatever she would ask. 
Matthew14:8 Being previously instructed by her mother, she said, “Give me John the Baptist’s head on a platter.”" 
Matthew14:8 Being previously instructed by her mother, she said, “Give me John the Baptist’s head on a platter.”" 
Matthew14:9 The king was sorry. Nevertheless, for the oath’s sake and those who sat with him at supper, he commanded it to be given to her." 
Matthew14:10 He sent and beheaded John in the prison. 
Matthew14:10 He sent and beheaded John in the prison. 
Matthew14:11 His head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother." 
Matthew14:12 His disciples came and took up the body and buried it. And they went and told Jesus. 
Matthew14:13 When Jesus heard this, He departed from there by boat for a deserted place. But when the people heard it, they followed Him on foot from the cities." 
Matthew14:14 Jesus went ashore and saw a great assembly. And He was moved with compassion toward them, and He healed their sick." 
Matthew14:15 When it was evening, His disciples came to Him, saying, “This is a lonely place and the day is now over. Send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy themselves food.”" 
Matthew14:16 But Jesus said to them, “They do not need to depart. You give them something to eat.”" 
Matthew14:17 They said to Him, “We have only five loaves here and two fish.”" 
Matthew14:18 He said, “Bring them here to Me.”" 
Matthew14:19 Then He commanded the crowds to sit down on the grass. He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke and gave the loaves to His disciples; and the disciples gave them to the crowds." 
Matthew14:20 They all ate and were filled. And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments that remained. 
Matthew14:21 Those who had eaten were about five thousand men, besides women and children." 
Matthew14:22 Then Jesus commanded His disciples to get into the boat and go ahead of Him to the other side, while He sent the crowds away." 
Matthew14:23 When He sent the crowds away, He went up into a mountain by Himself to pray. And when evening came, He was there alone." 
Matthew14:24 But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, tossed by the waves, for the wind was turbulent." 
Matthew14:25 During the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea." 
Matthew14:26 But when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, “It is a spirit.” And they cried out in fear." 
Matthew14:27 But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid.”" 
Matthew14:28 Peter answered Him, “Lord, if it is You, bid me come to You on the water.”" 
Matthew14:29 He said, “Come.” And when Peter got out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus." 
Matthew14:30 But when he saw the strong wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, “Lord, save me!”" 
Matthew14:31 Immediately Jesus reached out His hand and caught him, and said to him, “O you of little faith, why did you doubt?”" 
Matthew14:32 And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased." 
Matthew14:33 Then those who were in the boat came and worshipped Him, saying, “Truly You are the Son of God.”" 
Matthew14:34 When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret." 
Matthew14:35 And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent word to all the surrounding country and brought to Him all who were sick," 
Matthew14:36 and begged Him that they might only touch the hem of His garment. And as many as touched it were made perfectly well. 
Matthew15:1 Then scribes and Pharisees who were from Jerusalem came to Jesus, saying," 
Matthew15:2 “Why do Your disciples violate the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.” 
Matthew15:3 But He answered them, “Why do you also violate the commandment of God by your tradition?" 
Matthew15:4 For God commanded, ‘Honor your father and mother,’ and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.’" 
Matthew15:5 But you say, ‘Whoever shall say to his father or his mother, “What you would have profited from me is a gift to God,”" 
Matthew15:6 will be free from honoring his father or his mother.’ So you have made the commandment of God of no effect by your tradition. 
Matthew15:7 You hypocrites, Isaiah well prophesied of you, saying:" 
Matthew15:8 ‘These people draw near to Me with their mouth, and honor Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me." 
Matthew15:9 In vain they do worship Me, teaching as instructions from the precepts of men.’ ”" 
Matthew15:10 He called the crowds and said to them, “Hear and understand:" 
Matthew15:11 That which goes into the mouth does not defile a man, but that which comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man.”" 
Matthew15:12 Then His disciples came and said to Him, “Do You know that the Pharisees were offended after they heard this saying?”" 
Matthew15:13 But He answered, “Every plant which My heavenly Father has not planted will be uprooted." 
Matthew15:14 Leave them alone. They are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into the ditch.”" 
Matthew15:15 Then Peter said to Him, “Explain this parable to us.”" 
Matthew15:16 Jesus said, “Are you also still without understanding?" 
Matthew15:17 Do you not yet understand that whatever enters at the mouth goes into the stomach and is cast out into the sewer? 
Matthew15:18 But those things which proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and they defile the man." 
Matthew15:19 For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, sexual immorality, thefts, false witness, and blasphemies." 
Matthew15:20 These are the things which defile a man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man.” 
Matthew15:21 Then Jesus went from there and departed into the regions of Tyre and Sidon. 
Matthew15:22 And behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same regions and cried out to Him, saying, “Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David. My daughter is severely possessed by a demon.”" 
Matthew15:23 But He did not answer her a word. And His disciples came and begged Him, saying, “Send her away, for she cries out after us.”" 
Matthew15:24 But He answered, “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”" 
Matthew15:25 Then she came and worshipped Him, saying, “Lord, help me.”" 
Matthew15:26 But He answered, “It is not fair to take the children’s bread and to throw it to dogs.”" 
Matthew15:27 She said, “Yes, Lord, yet even dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table.”" 
Matthew15:28 Then Jesus answered her, “O woman, great is your faith. Let it be done for you as you desire.” And her daughter was healed instantly." 
Matthew15:29 Jesus departed from there, and passed by the Sea of Galilee, and went up on a mountain and sat down there." 
Matthew15:30 Great crowds came to Him, having with them those who were lame, blind, mute, maimed, and many others, and placed them down at Jesus’ feet, and He healed them," 
Matthew15:31 so that the crowds wondered when they saw the mute speak, the maimed made whole, the lame walk, and the blind see. And they glorified the God of Israel." 
Matthew15:32 Then Jesus called His disciples to Him and said, “I have compassion on the crowd, because they have remained with Me now for three days and have nothing to eat. I will not send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.”" 
Matthew15:33 His disciples said to Him, “Where will we get enough bread in the wilderness to feed such a great crowd?”" 
Matthew15:34 Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” And they said, “Seven and a few little fish.”" 
Matthew15:35 He commanded the crowd to sit down on the ground. 
Matthew15:36 He took the seven loaves and the fish, gave thanks, broke them, and gave them to His disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowd." 
Matthew15:37 They all ate and were filled. And they collected seven baskets full of the broken pieces that were left. 
Matthew15:38 Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children." 
Matthew15:39 He sent the crowd away, and got into the boat, and went to the region of Magdala." 
Matthew16:1 The Pharisees and Sadducees came and, testing Him, asked Him to show them a sign from heaven." 
Matthew16:2 He answered them, “When it is evening, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red,’" 
Matthew16:3 and in the morning, ‘It will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and overcast.’ O you hypocrites, you can discern the appearance of the sky, but you cannot discern the signs of the times." 
Matthew16:4 A wicked and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.” So He left them and departed." 
Matthew16:5 But when His disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to take bread." 
Matthew16:6 Then Jesus said to them, “Take heed and beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”" 
Matthew16:7 They reasoned among themselves, saying, “It is because we have taken no bread.”" 
Matthew16:8 But when Jesus perceived it, He said to them, “O you of little faith, why reason among yourselves, that it is because you have brought no bread?" 
Matthew16:9 Do you not yet understand or remember the five loaves of the five thousand and how many baskets you collected? 
Matthew16:10 Or the seven loaves of the four thousand and how many baskets you collected? 
Matthew16:11 How is it that you do not understand that I spoke to you not concerning bread, but that you should beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees?”" 
Matthew16:12 Then they understood that He did not tell them to beware of the yeast of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees." 
Matthew16:13 When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, He asked His disciples, “Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?”" 
Matthew16:14 They said, “Some say that You are John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:14 They said, “Some say that You are John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:15 He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?”" 
Matthew16:16 Simon Peter replied, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.”" 
Matthew16:17 Jesus answered him, “Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew16:18 And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 
Matthew16:19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.”" 
Matthew16:20 Then He commanded His disciples to tell no one that He was Jesus the Christ. 
Matthew16:21 From that time on, Jesus began to show His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised on the third day." 
Matthew16:22 Then Peter took Him and began rebuking Him, saying, “Far be it from You, Lord! This shall not happen to You.”" 
Matthew16:23 But He turned and said to Peter, “Get behind Me, Satan! You are an offense to Me, for you are not mindful of the things that are of God, but those that are of men.”" 
Matthew16:24 Then Jesus said to His disciples, “If anyone will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me." 
Matthew16:25 For whoever would save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for My sake will find it." 
Matthew16:26 For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? 
Matthew16:27 For the Son of Man shall come with His angels in the glory of His Father, and then He will repay every man according to his works." 
Matthew16:28 Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who shall not taste death before they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.”" 
Matthew17:1 After six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John his brother and brought them up to a high mountain alone," 
Matthew17:1 After six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John his brother and brought them up to a high mountain alone," 
Matthew17:1 After six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John his brother and brought them up to a high mountain alone," 
Matthew17:2 and was transfigured before them. His face shone as the sun, and His garments became white as the light." 
Matthew17:3 And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with Him." 
Matthew17:4 Then Peter said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If You wish, let us make three tabernacles here: one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”" 
Matthew17:5 While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, “This is My beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to Him.”" 
Matthew17:6 When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were filled with awe." 
Matthew17:7 But Jesus came and touched them and said, “Rise, and do not be afraid.”" 
Matthew17:8 When they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only." 
Matthew17:9 As they came down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, “Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is risen from the dead.”" 
Matthew17:10 His disciples asked Him, “Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?”" 
Matthew17:11 Jesus replied, “Elijah truly does first come and will restore all things." 
Matthew17:12 But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not know him, but did to him whatever they pleased. Likewise, the Son of Man will also suffer at their hands.”" 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples understood that He was speaking to them of John the Baptist. 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples understood that He was speaking to them of John the Baptist. 
Matthew17:14 When they came to the crowd, a man came to Him and knelt before Him, saying," 
Matthew17:15 “Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and suffers terribly. He often falls into the fire and often into the water." 
Matthew17:16 I brought him to Your disciples, but they could not heal him.”" 
Matthew17:17 Then Jesus answered, “O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to Me.”" 
Matthew17:18 Jesus rebuked the demon, and he came out of him. And the child was healed instantly." 
Matthew17:19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, “Why could we not cast him out?”" 
Matthew17:20 Jesus said to them, “Because of your unbelief. For truly I say to you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move. And nothing will be impossible for you." 
Matthew17:21 But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.” 
Matthew17:22 While they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men," 
Matthew17:23 and they will kill Him, and He will be raised on the third day.” And they were extremely sorrowful." 
Matthew17:24 When they came to Capernaum, those who collected tax money came to Peter and said, “Does your Teacher not pay the tax?”" 
Matthew17:25 He said, “Yes.” And when he came home, Jesus stopped him, saying, “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take custom or taxes? From their own sons or from strangers?”" 
Matthew17:26 Peter said to Him, “From strangers.” Jesus said to him, “Then the sons are free." 
Matthew17:27 However, lest we offend them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up. And when you open its mouth, you will find a coin. Take it and give it to them for you and Me.”" 
Matthew18:1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?”" 
Matthew18:2 Jesus called a little child to Him and set him in their midst," 
Matthew18:3 and said, “Truly I say to you, unless you are converted and become like little children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew18:4 Therefore whoever humbles himself like this little child is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew18:5 And whoever receives one such little child in My name receives Me. 
Matthew18:6 “But whoever misleads one of these little ones who believe in Me, it would be better for him to have a millstone hung about his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea." 
Matthew18:7 Woe to the world because of temptations! For it must be that temptations come, but woe to that man by whom the temptation comes!" 
Matthew18:8 Therefore if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life lame or maimed than having two hands or two feet to be thrown into eternal fire." 
Matthew18:9 And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than having two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire." 
Matthew18:10 “See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of My Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew18:11 For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. 
Matthew18:12 “What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills and go in search for the one which went astray?" 
Matthew18:13 And if he finds it, truly I say to you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the ninety-nine which never went astray." 
Matthew18:14 So it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. 
Matthew18:15 “Now if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother." 
Matthew18:16 But if he does not listen, then take with you one or two others, that by the testimony of two or three witnesses every word may be established." 
Matthew18:17 If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector." 
Matthew18:18 “Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." 
Matthew18:19 “Again I say to you, that if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew18:20 For where two or three are assembled in My name, there I am in their midst.”" 
Matthew18:21 Then Peter came to Him and said, “Lord, how often shall I forgive my brother who sins against me? Up to seven times?”" 
Matthew18:22 Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven." 
Matthew18:23 “Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. 
Matthew18:24 When he began to settle the accounts, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents." 
Matthew18:25 But since he was not able to pay, his master ordered that he be sold with his wife, their children, and all that he had, and payment to be made." 
Matthew18:26 “So the servant fell on his knees, pleading with him, saying, ‘Master, have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.’" 
Matthew18:27 Then the master of that servant was moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt." 
Matthew18:28 “But that same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. He laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, ‘Pay me what you owe.’" 
Matthew18:29 “So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and entreated him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.’" 
Matthew18:30 “But he would not and went and threw him in prison until he should pay the debt. 
Matthew18:31 So when his fellow servants saw what took place, they were very sorry and went and told their master all that had taken place." 
Matthew18:32 “Then his master, after he had summoned him, said to him, ‘O you wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt, because you pleaded with me." 
Matthew18:33 Should you not also have had compassion on your fellow servant, even as I had pity on you?’" 
Matthew18:34 His master was angry and delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. 
Matthew18:35 “So also My heavenly Father will do to each of you, if from your heart you do not forgive your brother for his trespasses.”" 
Matthew19:1 Now when Jesus finished these sayings, He departed from Galilee and came into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan." 
Matthew19:1 Now when Jesus finished these sayings, He departed from Galilee and came into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan." 
Matthew19:2 Large crowds followed Him, and He healed them there." 
Matthew19:3 The Pharisees also came to Him, tempting Him and saying, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?”" 
Matthew19:4 He answered, “Have you not read that He who made them at the beginning ‘made them male and female,’" 
Matthew19:5 and said, ‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh’?" 
Matthew19:6 So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, let no man put asunder.”" 
Matthew19:7 They said to Him, “Then why did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce, and to send her away?”" 
Matthew19:8 He said to them, “Moses, for the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so." 
Matthew19:9 But I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. And whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery.”" 
Matthew19:10 His disciples said to Him, “If such is the case of the man with his wife, it is not good to marry.”" 
Matthew19:11 But He said to them, “Not all men can receive this precept, but only those to whom it is given." 
Matthew19:12 For there are some eunuchs who have been so from birth, there are some eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are some eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. He who is able to receive this, let him receive it.”" 
Matthew19:13 Then little children were brought to Him that He might put His hands on them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them. 
Matthew19:14 But Jesus said, “Let the little children come to Me, and do not forbid them. For to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.”" 
Matthew19:15 He laid His hands on them and departed from there. 
Matthew19:16 And behold, one came and said to Him, “Good Teacher, what good deed shall I do to have eternal life?”" 
Matthew19:17 He said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One, that is, God. But if you wish to enter into life, keep the commandments.”" 
Matthew19:18 He said to Him, “Which ones?” Jesus said, “You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness," 
Matthew19:19 Honor your father and your mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. ”" 
Matthew19:20 The young man said to Him, “All these I have kept from my youth. What do I still lack?”" 
Matthew19:21 Jesus said to him, “If you would be complete, go and sell what you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow Me.”" 
Matthew19:22 But when the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful. For he had great possessions." 
Matthew19:23 Then Jesus said to His disciples, “Truly, I say to you that it will be hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew19:24 And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.”" 
Matthew19:25 When His disciples heard this, they were greatly amazed, saying, “Who then can be saved?”" 
Matthew19:26 But Jesus looked at them and said, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.”" 
Matthew19:27 Then Peter said in reply to Him, “See, we have left everything and followed You. What then shall we have?”" 
Matthew19:28 Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you, in the renewed age, when the Son of Man sits on His glorious throne, you who have followed Me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel." 
Matthew19:29 And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or fields for My name’s sake shall receive a hundred times as much and inherit eternal life. 
Matthew19:30 But many who are first will be last, and the last first." 
Matthew20:1 “For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. 
Matthew20:2 When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard." 
Matthew20:3 “Then he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace," 
Matthew20:4 and said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you.’ So they went." 
Matthew20:5 Again he went out about the sixth hour and the ninth hour and did likewise. 
Matthew20:6 “About the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle, and said to them, ‘Why do you stand here idle all day?’" 
Matthew20:7 “They said to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ “He said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right you will receive.’" 
Matthew20:8 “So when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his steward, ‘Call the laborers and give them their wages, beginning with the last to the first.’" 
Matthew20:9 “When they who were hired about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius." 
Matthew20:10 But when the first came, they supposed that they would receive more, but each of them likewise received a denarius." 
Matthew20:11 When they received it, they grumbled against the landowner," 
Matthew20:12 saying, ‘These last worked only one hour, and you made them equal to us, who have borne the burden and the heat of the day.’" 
Matthew20:13 “But he replied to one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?" 
Matthew20:14 Take what is yours and go your way. I will give to this last one even as I give to you. 
Matthew20:15 Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with my own things? Or is your eye evil because I am good?’ 
Matthew20:16 “So the last will be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few are chosen.”" 
Matthew20:17 As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, He took the twelve disciples aside on the road and said to them," 
Matthew20:18 “Now we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes. And they will condemn Him to death" 
Matthew20:19 and deliver Him to the Gentiles to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify Him, but on the third day He will rise.”" 
Matthew20:20 Then the mother of Zebedee’s sons came to Him with her sons. And kneeling before Him, she asked for a certain thing." 
Matthew20:21 He said to her, “What do you want?” She said to Him, “Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one at Your right hand and one at Your left, in Your kingdom.”" 
Matthew20:22 But Jesus answered, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink from the cup that I am to drink, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” They said to Him, “We are able.”" 
Matthew20:23 He said to them, “You will indeed drink from My cup and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. But to sit at My right hand and at My left is not Mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it is prepared by My Father.”" 
Matthew20:24 When the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brothers." 
Matthew20:25 But Jesus called them to Him and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them." 
Matthew20:26 It shall not be so among you. Whoever would be great among you, let him be your servant," 
Matthew20:27 and whoever would be first among you, let him be your slave," 
Matthew20:28 even as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.”" 
Matthew20:29 As they departed from Jericho, a large crowd followed Him." 
Matthew20:30 And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the road, and when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, “Have mercy on us, O Lord, Son of David!”" 
Matthew20:31 The crowd rebuked them, that they should be silent. But they cried out even more, “Have mercy on us, O Lord, Son of David!”" 
Matthew20:32 Jesus stood still and called them, saying, “What do you want Me to do for you?”" 
Matthew20:33 They said to Him, “Lord, let our eyes be opened.”" 
Matthew20:34 So Jesus had compassion on them and touched their eyes. Immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed Him." 
Matthew21:1 When they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, on the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples," 
Matthew21:2 saying to them, “Go over into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to Me." 
Matthew21:3 If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, ‘The Lord has need of them.’ And he will send them immediately.”" 
Matthew21:4 All this was done to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying:" 
Matthew21:5 “Say to the daughter of Zion, ‘Behold, your King is coming to you, humble, and sitting on a donkey, and on a colt, the foal of a donkey.’ ”" 
Matthew21:6 The disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. 
Matthew21:7 They brought the donkey and the colt, laid their garments on them, and He sat on them." 
Matthew21:8 A very large crowd spread their garments on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. 
Matthew21:9 The crowds that went before Him and that followed Him cried out: “Hosanna to the Son of David! ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’ Hosanna in the highest!” 
Matthew21:10 When He entered Jerusalem, the entire city was moved, saying, “Who is He?”" 
Matthew21:11 The crowds said, “This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee.”" 
Matthew21:12 Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who sold and bought in the temple and overturned the tables of the moneychangers and the seats of those who sold doves. 
Matthew21:13 He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer,’ but you have made it ‘a den of thieves.’ ”" 
Matthew21:14 The blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them." 
Matthew21:15 But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that He did, and the children crying out in the temple, “Hosanna to the Son of David,” they were extremely displeased" 
Matthew21:16 and said to Him, “Do You hear what these are saying?” Jesus said to them, “Yes. Have you never read, ‘Out of the mouth of children and infants You have perfected praise’?”" 
Matthew21:17 And He left them and went out of the city into Bethany, and He lodged there." 
Matthew21:18 Now in the morning as He returned to the city, He became hungry." 
Matthew21:19 When He saw a fig tree by the road, He went to it but found nothing on it except leaves. He said to it, “Let no fruit ever grow on you again.” Immediately the fig tree withered away." 
Matthew21:20 When the disciples saw it, they were amazed, saying, “How did the fig tree wither away instantly?”" 
Matthew21:21 Jesus answered them, “Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but also, if you say to this mountain, ‘Be removed, and be thrown into the sea,’ it will be done." 
Matthew21:22 And whatever you ask in prayer, if you believe, you will receive.”" 
Matthew21:23 When He entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to Him as He was teaching, and said, “By what authority are You doing these things? And who gave You this authority?”" 
Matthew21:24 Jesus answered them, “I also will ask you one question. If you tell Me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Matthew21:25 Where did the baptism of John come from? From heaven or from men?” They reasoned among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say to us, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’" 
Matthew21:25 Where did the baptism of John come from? From heaven or from men?” They reasoned among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say to us, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’" 
Matthew21:26 But if we say, ‘From men,’ we are afraid of the people, for all hold John as a prophet.”" 
Matthew21:26 But if we say, ‘From men,’ we are afraid of the people, for all hold John as a prophet.”" 
Matthew21:27 So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” Then He said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Matthew21:28 “What do you think? A man had two sons. He came to the first and said, ‘Son, go work today in my vineyard.’" 
Matthew21:29 “He answered, ‘I will not,’ but afterward he repented and went." 
Matthew21:30 “Then he came to the second, and said likewise. He answered, ‘I will go, sir,’ but did not go." 
Matthew21:31 “Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and prostitutes enter the kingdom of God before you." 
Matthew21:32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward repent and believe him." 
Matthew21:32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward repent and believe him." 
Matthew21:33 “Listen to another parable: There was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and built a wall around it. He dug a winepress in it and built a tower. Then he rented it to vinedressers and went into a distant country. 
Matthew21:34 When the season of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the vinedressers to receive his fruit." 
Matthew21:35 “The vinedressers took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another." 
Matthew21:36 Again, he sent other servants, more than the first. And they did likewise to them." 
Matthew21:37 Last of all, he sent his son to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’" 
Matthew21:38 “But when the vinedressers saw the son, they said to themselves, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance.’" 
Matthew21:39 So they caught him, threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him." 
Matthew21:40 “Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vinedressers?”" 
Matthew21:41 They said, “He will severely destroy those wicked men and rent his vineyard to other vinedressers who will give him the fruits in their seasons.”" 
Matthew21:42 Jesus said to them, “Have you never read in the Scriptures: ‘The stone which the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord’s doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes’?" 
Matthew21:43 “Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken from you and given to a nation bearing its fruits." 
Matthew21:44 Whoever falls on this stone will be broken to pieces. But on whomever it falls, it will crush him.”" 
Matthew21:45 When the chief priests and Pharisees heard His parables, they perceived that He was speaking of them." 
Matthew21:46 But as they tried to arrest Him, they feared the crowds, because they held Him as a prophet." 
Matthew22:1 Jesus spoke to them again by parables, saying," 
Matthew22:2 “The kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who arranged a marriage for his son," 
Matthew22:3 and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding, but they would not come." 
Matthew22:4 “Again, he sent out other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited: See, I have prepared my supper. My oxen and fattened calves are killed, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding banquet.’" 
Matthew22:5 “But they made light of it and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his business;" 
Matthew22:6 the rest took his servants, treated them spitefully, and killed them." 
Matthew22:7 When the king heard about it, he was angry. He sent in his army and destroyed those murderers and burned up their city." 
Matthew22:8 “Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy." 
Matthew22:9 Go therefore to the streets, and invite to the wedding banquet as many as you find.’" 
Matthew22:10 So those servants went out into the streets and gathered together as many as they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests." 
Matthew22:11 “But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw a man who was not wearing wedding garments." 
Matthew22:12 He said to him, ‘Friend, how did you get in here without wedding garments?’ And he was speechless." 
Matthew22:13 “Then the king told the attendants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him into outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’" 
Matthew22:14 “For many are called, but few are chosen.”" 
Matthew22:15 Then the Pharisees went and took counsel to entangle Him in His words. 
Matthew22:16 They sent their disciples to Him with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we know that You are truthful and teach the way of God truthfully, and are swayed by no one. For You do not regard the person of men." 
Matthew22:17 Tell us then, what do You think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”" 
Matthew22:18 But Jesus perceived their wickedness and said, “Why test Me, you hypocrites?" 
Matthew22:19 Show Me the tax money.” They brought Him a denarius. 
Matthew22:20 He said to them, “Whose is this image and inscription?”" 
Matthew22:21 They said to Him, “Caesar’s.” Then He said to them, “Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”" 
Matthew22:22 When they heard these words, they were amazed, and left Him and went on their way." 
Matthew22:23 The same day the Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection, came to Him and asked Him," 
Matthew22:24 “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies having no children, his brother must marry his wife and raise up children for his brother.’" 
Matthew22:25 Now there were seven brothers with us. The first died after he married and, having no children, left his wife to his brother." 
Matthew22:26 Likewise the second and third, on to the seventh." 
Matthew22:27 Last of all, the woman died also." 
Matthew22:28 Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seven? For they all had her.”" 
Matthew22:29 Jesus answered, “You err, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God." 
Matthew22:30 For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels of God in heaven." 
Matthew22:31 But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by God," 
Matthew22:32 ‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.”" 
Matthew22:33 When the crowds heard this, they were astonished at His teaching." 
Matthew22:34 When the Pharisees heard that He silenced the Sadducees, they came together." 
Matthew22:35 One of them, who was a lawyer, tested Him by asking Him," 
Matthew22:36 “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?”" 
Matthew22:37 Jesus said to him, “ ‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.’" 
Matthew22:38 This is the first and great commandment. 
Matthew22:39 And the second is like it: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ 
Matthew22:40 On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets.” 
Matthew22:41 While the Pharisees were assembled, Jesus asked them," 
Matthew22:42 “What do you think of the Christ? Whose Son is He?” They said to Him, “The Son of David.”" 
Matthew22:43 He said to them, “How then does David in the Spirit call Him ‘Lord,’ saying:" 
Matthew22:44 ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand, until I make Your enemies Your footstool” ’?" 
Matthew22:45 If David then calls Him ‘Lord,’ how is He his Son?”" 
Matthew22:46 No one was able to answer Him a word, nor from that day on did anyone dare to ask Him any more questions." 
Matthew23:1 Then Jesus said to the crowds and to His disciples," 
Matthew23:2 “The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat. 
Matthew23:3 Therefore, whatever they tell you to observe, that observe and do, but do not do their works. For they speak, but do nothing." 
Matthew23:4 They fasten heavy loads that are hard to carry and lay them on men’s shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with their finger." 
Matthew23:5 “They do all their works to be seen by men. They make their Scripture boxes broad and lengthen the tassels on their prayer shawls. 
Matthew23:6 They love the places of honor at feasts, and the prominent seats in the synagogues," 
Matthew23:7 and greetings in the marketplaces, and being called ‘Rabbi’ by men." 
Matthew23:8 “But do not be called ‘Rabbi,’ for you have one Teacher, the Christ, and you are all brothers." 
Matthew23:9 And call no man on earth your father, for you have one Father, who is in heaven." 
Matthew23:10 Nor be called teachers, for you have one Teacher, the Christ." 
Matthew23:11 He who is greatest among you shall be your servant. 
Matthew23:12 For he who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted." 
Matthew23:13 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You shut the kingdom of heaven against men. For you neither enter yourselves, nor allow those who are entering to go in." 
Matthew23:14 Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You devour widows’ houses and for pretense make long prayers. Therefore you will receive the greater condemnation." 
Matthew23:15 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You travel sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves." 
Matthew23:16 “Woe to you, blind guides, who say, ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is obligated.’" 
Matthew23:17 You blind fools! Which is greater, the gold or the temple that sanctifies the gold?" 
Matthew23:18 And you say, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gift on it, he is obligated.’" 
Matthew23:19 You blind fools! Which is greater, the gift or the altar that sanctifies the gift?" 
Matthew23:20 Therefore he who swears by the altar, swears by it and by all things on it." 
Matthew23:21 But he who swears by the temple, swears by it and by Him who dwells in it." 
Matthew23:22 And he who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God and by Him who sits on it." 
Matthew23:23 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You tithe mint and dill and cumin, but have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone." 
Matthew23:24 You blind guides who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel! 
Matthew23:25 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of extortion and greed." 
Matthew23:26 You blind Pharisee, first cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may also be clean." 
Matthew23:27 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You are like whitewashed tombs, which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men’s bones and of all impurity." 
Matthew23:28 So you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity." 
Matthew23:29 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You build the tombs of the prophets, and adorn the memorials of the righteous," 
Matthew23:30 and say, ‘If we lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have partaken with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’" 
Matthew23:31 Therefore you are witnesses against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. 
Matthew23:32 Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers’ guilt." 
Matthew23:33 “You serpents! You generation of vipers! How can you escape the judgment of hell? 
Matthew23:34 Therefore I send you prophets, and wise men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city," 
Matthew23:35 that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah son of Berekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar." 
Matthew23:36 Truly I say to you, all these things will come on this generation." 
Matthew23:37 “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those who are sent to you, how often I would have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you would not!" 
Matthew23:38 See, your house is left to you desolate." 
Matthew23:39 For I tell you, you shall not see Me again until you say, ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ”" 
Matthew24:1 Jesus departed from the temple and was leaving when His disciples came to show Him the temple buildings. 
Matthew24:2 Jesus answered them, “Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another that shall not be thrown down.”" 
Matthew24:3 As He sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying, “Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of Your coming and of the end of the age?”" 
Matthew24:4 Jesus answered them, “Take heed that no one deceives you." 
Matthew24:5 For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am the Christ,’ and will deceive many." 
Matthew24:6 You will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not troubled. For all these things must happen, but the end is not yet." 
Matthew24:7 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be famines, epidemics, and earthquakes in various places." 
Matthew24:8 All these are the beginning of sorrows. 
Matthew24:9 “Then they will hand you over to be persecuted and will kill you. And you will be hated by all nations for My name’s sake. 
Matthew24:10 Then many will fall away, and betray one another, and hate one another." 
Matthew24:11 And many false prophets will rise and will deceive many. 
Matthew24:12 Because iniquity will abound, the love of many will grow cold." 
Matthew24:13 But he who endures to the end shall be saved. 
Matthew24:14 And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come." 
Matthew24:15 “So when you see the ‘abomination of desolation,’ spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand)," 
Matthew24:16 then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 
Matthew24:16 then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 
Matthew24:17 Let him who is on the housetop not go down to take anything out of his house. 
Matthew24:18 Let him who is in the field not return to take his clothes. 
Matthew24:19 Woe to those who are with child and to those who nurse in those days! 
Matthew24:20 Pray that your escape will not be in the winter or on the Sabbath. 
Matthew24:21 For then will be great distress, such as has not happened since the beginning of the world until now, no, nor ever shall be." 
Matthew24:22 “Unless those days were shortened, no one would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened." 
Matthew24:23 Then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ,’ or ‘There He is,’ do not believe it." 
Matthew24:24 For false christs and false prophets will arise and show great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect." 
Matthew24:25 See, I have told you beforehand." 
Matthew24:26 “So, if they say to you, ‘Look, He is in the desert,’ do not go there; or, ‘Look, He is in the private chambers,’ do not believe it." 
Matthew24:27 For as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man." 
Matthew24:28 Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will be gathered together." 
Matthew24:29 “Immediately after the distress of those days, ‘the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.’" 
Matthew24:30 “Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." 
Matthew24:31 And He will send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather His elect from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other." 
Matthew24:32 “Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: When its branch becomes tender and grows leaves, you know that summer is near." 
Matthew24:33 So also, when you shall see all these things, you know that it is near, even at the doors." 
Matthew24:34 Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place." 
Matthew24:35 Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will never pass away." 
Matthew24:36 “Concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, but My Father only." 
Matthew24:37 As were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man." 
Matthew24:38 For as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day Noah entered the ark," 
Matthew24:39 and did not know until the flood came and took them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man." 
Matthew24:40 Two will be in the field; one will be taken, and the other left." 
Matthew24:41 Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be taken, and the other left." 
Matthew24:42 “Watch therefore, for you do not know what hour your Lord will come." 
Matthew24:43 But know this, that if the owner of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched and not have let his house be broken into." 
Matthew24:44 Therefore you also must be ready, for in an hour when you least expect, the Son of Man is coming." 
Matthew24:45 “Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his master has made ruler over his household to give them food at the appointed time?" 
Matthew24:46 Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. 
Matthew24:47 Truly, I say to you that he will make him ruler over all his goods." 
Matthew24:48 But if that evil servant says in his heart, ‘My master delays his coming,’" 
Matthew24:49 and begins to strike his fellow servants and eat and drink with the drunkards," 
Matthew24:50 the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not look for him and in an hour he is not aware of 
Matthew24:51 and will cut him in pieces and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 
Matthew25:1 “Then the kingdom of heaven shall be like ten virgins, who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom." 
Matthew25:2 Five of them were wise and five were foolish. 
Matthew25:3 Those who were foolish took their lamps, but took no oil with them." 
Matthew25:4 But the wise took jars of oil with their lamps. 
Matthew25:5 While the bridegroom delayed, they all rested and slept." 
Matthew25:6 “But at midnight there was a cry, ‘Behold, the bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him!’" 
Matthew25:7 “Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. 
Matthew25:8 But the foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps have gone out.’" 
Matthew25:9 “The wise answered, ‘No, lest there not be enough for us and you. Go rather to those who sell it, and buy some for yourselves.’" 
Matthew25:10 “But while they went to buy some, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding banquet. And the door was shut." 
Matthew25:11 “Afterward, the other virgins came also, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open the door for us.’" 
Matthew25:12 “But he answered, ‘Truly I say to you, I do not know you.’" 
Matthew25:13 “Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming." 
Matthew25:14 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants and entrusted his goods to them." 
Matthew25:15 To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, to every man according to his ability. And immediately he took his journey." 
Matthew25:16 He who had received the five talents went and traded with them and made another five talents. 
Matthew25:17 So also, he who had received two gained another two." 
Matthew25:18 But he who had received one went and dug in the ground and hid his master’s money. 
Matthew25:19 “After a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. 
Matthew25:20 He who had received five talents came and brought the other five talents, saying, ‘Master, you entrusted to me five talents. Look, I have gained five talents more.’" 
Matthew25:21 “His master said to him, ‘Well done, you good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter the joy of your master.’" 
Matthew25:22 “He who had received two talents also came and said, ‘Master, you entrusted me with two talents. See, I have gained two more talents besides them.’" 
Matthew25:23 “His master said to him, ‘Well done, you good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter the joy of your master.’" 
Matthew25:24 “Then he who had received the one talent came and said, ‘Master, I knew that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not winnow." 
Matthew25:25 So I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours.’" 
Matthew25:26 “His master answered, ‘You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sown, and gather where I have not winnowed." 
Matthew25:27 Then you ought to have given my money to the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest." 
Matthew25:28 “ ‘So take the talent from him, and give it to him who has ten talents." 
Matthew25:29 For to everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from him who has nothing, even what he has will be taken away." 
Matthew25:30 And throw the unprofitable servant into outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’" 
Matthew25:31 “When the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then He will sit on the throne of His glory." 
Matthew25:32 Before Him will be gathered all nations, and He will separate them one from another as a shepherd separates his sheep from the goats." 
Matthew25:33 He will set the sheep at His right hand, but the goats at the left." 
Matthew25:34 “Then the King will say to those at His right hand, ‘Come, you blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you since the foundation of the world." 
Matthew25:35 For I was hungry and you gave Me food, I was thirsty and you gave Me drink, I was a stranger and you took Me in." 
Matthew25:36 I was naked and you clothed Me, I was sick and you visited Me, I was in prison and you came to Me.’" 
Matthew25:37 “Then the righteous will answer Him, ‘Lord, when did we see You hungry and feed You, or thirsty and give You drink?" 
Matthew25:38 When did we see You a stranger and take You in, or naked and clothe You?" 
Matthew25:39 And when did we see You sick or in prison and come to You?’ 
Matthew25:40 “The King will answer, ‘Truly I say to you, as you have done it for one of the least of these brothers of Mine, you have done it for Me.’" 
Matthew25:41 “Then He will say to those at the left hand, ‘Depart from Me, you cursed, into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels." 
Matthew25:42 For I was hungry and you gave Me no food, I was thirsty and you gave Me no drink," 
Matthew25:43 I was a stranger and you did not take Me in, I was naked and you did not clothe Me, I was sick and in prison and you did not visit Me.’" 
Matthew25:44 “Then they also will answer Him, ‘Lord, when did we see You hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not serve You?’" 
Matthew25:45 “He will answer, ‘Truly I say to you, as you did it not for one of the least of these, you did it not for Me.’" 
Matthew25:46 “And they will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”" 
Matthew26:1 When Jesus had finished all these sayings, He said to His disciples," 
Matthew26:2 “You know that after two days is the Passover, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to be crucified.”" 
Matthew26:3 Then the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas," 
Matthew26:4 and took counsel that they might take Jesus covertly and kill Him. 
Matthew26:5 But they said, “Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people.”" 
Matthew26:6 When Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper," 
Matthew26:7 a woman came to Him having an alabaster jar of very expensive ointment and poured it on His head as He sat at supper. 
Matthew26:8 When His disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, “For what purpose is this waste?" 
Matthew26:9 This ointment might have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor.” 
Matthew26:10 When Jesus perceived it, He said to them, “Why do you trouble the woman? She has done a good work for Me." 
Matthew26:11 For you have the poor always with you, but you do not always have Me." 
Matthew26:12 In pouring this ointment on My body, she did it for My burial." 
Matthew26:13 Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will be told in memory of her.”" 
Matthew26:14 Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests" 
Matthew26:15 and said to them, “What will you give me if I hand Him over to you?” And they paid him thirty pieces of silver." 
Matthew26:16 From that moment he searched for an opportunity to betray Him. 
Matthew26:17 On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Where will You have us to prepare for You to eat the Passover?”" 
Matthew26:18 He said, “Go into the city to a certain man, and say to him, ‘The Teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with My disciples.’ ”" 
Matthew26:19 The disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover." 
Matthew26:20 When evening came, He sat down with the twelve." 
Matthew26:21 And as they were eating, He said, “Truly I say to you, one of you will betray Me.”" 
Matthew26:22 They were very sorrowful, and each of them began saying to Him, “Lord, is it I?”" 
Matthew26:23 He answered, “He who has dipped his hand with Me in the dish will betray Me." 
Matthew26:24 The Son of Man goes as it is written of Him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born.”" 
Matthew26:25 Then Judas, who betrayed Him, answered, “Master, is it I?” He said to him, “You have said it.”" 
Matthew26:26 As they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed it and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, “Take and eat. This is My body.”" 
Matthew26:27 Then He took the cup, and after He gave thanks, He gave it to them, saying, “Drink of it, all of you." 
Matthew26:28 For this is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." 
Matthew26:29 I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in My Father’s kingdom.”" 
Matthew26:30 And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives." 
Matthew26:31 Then Jesus said to them, “All of you will fall away on account of Me this night, for it is written: ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered.’" 
Matthew26:32 But after I have risen, I will go before you to Galilee.”" 
Matthew26:33 Peter answered, “Though all men will fall away on account of You, yet I will never fall away.”" 
Matthew26:34 Jesus said to him, “Truly I say to you, this night, before the cock crows, you will deny Me three times.”" 
Matthew26:35 Peter said to Him, “Though I should die with You, yet I will not deny You.” And all the disciples spoke in this manner." 
Matthew26:36 Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane and said to the disciples, “Sit here while I go and pray close by.”" 
Matthew26:37 He took with Him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be sorrowful and troubled. 
Matthew26:38 Then He said to them, “My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Wait here, and keep watch with Me.”" 
Matthew26:39 He went a little farther, and falling on His face, He prayed, “O My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as You will.”" 
Matthew26:40 Then He came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “So, could you not keep watch with Me one hour?" 
Matthew26:41 Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.”" 
Matthew26:42 He went away a second time and prayed, “O My Father, if this cup cannot pass away from Me unless I drink it, Your will be done.”" 
Matthew26:43 Again, He came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy." 
Matthew26:44 So leaving them again, He went away and prayed the third time, saying the same words." 
Matthew26:45 Then He came to His disciples and said to them, “Sleep on now, and take your rest. Look, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners." 
Matthew26:46 Rise, let us be going. Look, he who betrays Me is at hand.”" 
Matthew26:47 While He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, came. And with him was a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and elders of the people." 
Matthew26:48 Now he who betrayed Him had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I shall kiss is the Man. Seize Him.”" 
Matthew26:49 He immediately came to Jesus and said, “Hail, Rabbi!” and kissed Him." 
Matthew26:50 And Jesus said to him, “Friend, why have you come?” Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and took Him." 
Matthew26:51 Immediately, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear." 
Matthew26:52 Then Jesus said to him, “Put your sword back in its place. For all those who take up the sword will perish by the sword." 
Matthew26:53 Do you think that I cannot now pray to My Father, and He will at once give Me more than twelve legions of angels?" 
Matthew26:54 But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be so?”" 
Matthew26:55 At that same moment Jesus said to the crowds, “Have you come out as against a thief to take Me with swords and clubs? Daily I sat with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize Me." 
Matthew26:56 But all this was done that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples forsook Him and fled. 
Matthew26:57 Those who had seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had assembled." 
Matthew26:58 But Peter followed Him from afar to the high priest’s courtyard and went in, and sat with the servants to see the end." 
Matthew26:59 The chief priests and the elders and the entire Sanhedrin searched for false witness against Jesus to put Him to death," 
Matthew26:60 but they found none. Yes, though many false witnesses came forward, they found none. At last two false witnesses came forward" 
Matthew26:61 and said, “This fellow said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days.’ ”" 
Matthew26:62 Then the high priest stood up and said to Him, “Do You answer nothing? What is it these men testify against You?”" 
Matthew26:63 But Jesus remained silent. The high priest said to Him, “I adjure You by the living God, tell us whether You are the Christ, the Son of God.”" 
Matthew26:64 Jesus said to him, “You have said so. But I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.”" 
Matthew26:65 Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying, “He has uttered blasphemy. What further need do we have for witnesses? See, now you have heard His blasphemy." 
Matthew26:66 What do you think?” They answered, “He is guilty unto death.”" 
Matthew26:67 Then they spit in His face and struck Him. And others slapped Him with the palms of their hands," 
Matthew26:68 saying, “Prophesy to us, You Christ! Who is it that struck You?”" 
Matthew26:69 Now Peter sat outside in the courtyard. And a girl came to him, saying, “You also were with Jesus of Galilee.”" 
Matthew26:70 But he denied it before them all, saying, “I do not know what you are saying.”" 
Matthew26:71 Then when he went out onto the porch, another girl saw him and said to those who were there, “This man was also with Jesus of Nazareth.”" 
Matthew26:72 Again he denied with an oath, “I do not know the Man.”" 
Matthew26:73 After a while those who stood by came to Peter and said, “Surely you also are one of them, for your accent betrays you.”" 
Matthew26:74 Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and he swore, “I do not know the Man.” Then immediately a cock crowed." 
Matthew26:75 Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken, “Before a cock crows, you will deny Me three times.” Then he went out and wept bitterly." 
Matthew27:1 When the morning came, all the chief priests and elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put Him to death." 
Matthew27:2 When they had bound Him, they led Him away and handed Him over to Pontius Pilate the governor." 
Matthew27:3 When Judas, who had betrayed Him, saw that He was condemned, he repented and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders," 
Matthew27:4 saying, “I have sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood.” They said, “What is that to us? You must see to that.”" 
Matthew27:5 So he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed. And he went and hanged himself. 
Matthew27:6 The chief priests took the pieces of silver and said, “It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, because this is the price of blood.”" 
Matthew27:7 So they took counsel, and bought with them the potter’s field to bury strangers in." 
Matthew27:8 Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day. 
Matthew27:9 Then what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled: “They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of Him on whom a value had been set by some of the Israelites," 
Matthew27:10 and they gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord commanded me.”" 
Matthew27:11 Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor asked Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” Jesus said to him, “You have said so.”" 
Matthew27:12 When He was accused by the chief priests and elders, He gave no answer." 
Matthew27:13 Then Pilate said to Him, “Do You not hear how many things they testify against You?”" 
Matthew27:14 But He never answered him a word, so that the governor was greatly amazed." 
Matthew27:15 Now at the feast, the governor was accustomed to releasing to the people a prisoner whom they chose." 
Matthew27:16 They had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. 
Matthew27:17 So when they had gathered together, Pilate said to them, “Whom do you want me to release to you—Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?”" 
Matthew27:18 For he knew that they had handed Him over out of envy. 
Matthew27:19 When he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, “Have nothing to do with that righteous Man, for I have suffered much today in a dream on account of Him.”" 
Matthew27:20 But the chief priests and elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and kill Jesus. 
Matthew27:21 The governor answered, “Which of the two do you want me to release to you?” They said, “Barabbas.”" 
Matthew27:22 Pilate said to them, “Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?” They all said to him, “Let Him be crucified!”" 
Matthew27:23 The governor said, “Why, what evil has He done?” But they cried out all the more, “Let Him be crucified!”" 
Matthew27:24 When Pilate saw that he could not prevail, but rather that unrest was beginning, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this righteous Man. See to it yourselves.”" 
Matthew27:25 Then all the people answered, “His blood be on us and on our children!”" 
Matthew27:26 Then he released Barabbas to them. But when he had scourged Jesus, he handed Him over to be crucified." 
Matthew27:27 Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole detachment of soldiers before Him." 
Matthew27:28 They stripped Him and put a scarlet robe on Him," 
Matthew27:29 and when they wove a crown of thorns, they put it on His head and put a staff in His right hand. They knelt before Him and mocked Him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!”" 
Matthew27:30 They spit on Him, and took the staff and hit Him on the head." 
Matthew27:31 After they had mocked Him, they took the robe off Him, put His own garments on Him, and led Him away to crucify Him." 
Matthew27:32 As they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. This man they compelled to bear His cross." 
Matthew27:33 When they came to a place called Golgotha, which means The Place of the Skull," 
Matthew27:34 they gave Him sour wine mingled with gall to drink. But when He tasted it, He would not drink it." 
Matthew27:35 When they crucified Him, they divided His garments by casting lots to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, “They divided My garments among themselves and for My clothing they cast lots.”" 
Matthew27:36 And sitting down, they kept watch over Him there." 
Matthew27:37 They put His accusation over His head, which read: this is jesus the king of the jews***." 
Matthew27:38 Then two thieves were crucified with Him, one on the right and another on the left." 
Matthew27:39 Those who passed by insulted Him, shaking their heads," 
Matthew27:40 saying, “You who would destroy the temple and build it in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross.”" 
Matthew27:41 Likewise the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked Him, saying," 
Matthew27:42 “He saved others. He cannot save Himself. If He is the King of Israel, let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe Him." 
Matthew27:43 He trusted in God. Let Him deliver Him now, if He will have Him. For He said, ‘I am the Son of God.’  ”" 
Matthew27:44 Even the thieves who were crucified with Him insulted Him in the same way. 
Matthew27:45 Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was darkness over all the land. 
Matthew27:46 About the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?” which means, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?”" 
Matthew27:47 Some of those who stood there heard it and said, “This Man is calling for Elijah.”" 
Matthew27:48 Immediately one of them ran, took a sponge, filled it with wine, and put it on a stick, and gave it to Him to drink." 
Matthew27:49 The rest said, “Leave Him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to save Him.”" 
Matthew27:50 And Jesus, when He had cried out again with a loud voice, released His spirit." 
Matthew27:51 And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from the top to the bottom. And the ground shook, and the rocks split apart." 
Matthew27:52 The graves also were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had died were raised," 
Matthew27:53 and coming out of the graves after His resurrection, they went into the Holy City and appeared to many." 
Matthew27:54 When the centurion and those with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they feared greatly and said, “Truly He was the Son of God!”" 
Matthew27:55 Many women who were there watching from afar followed Jesus from Galilee, serving Him," 
Matthew27:56 among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of Zebedee’s sons." 
Matthew27:56 among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of Zebedee’s sons." 
Matthew27:57 When the evening came, there came a rich man of Arimathea, named Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus." 
Matthew27:58 He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given to him. 
Matthew27:59 When Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth," 
Matthew27:60 and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut out of the rock. And he rolled a large stone to the door of the tomb and departed." 
Matthew27:61 Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the tomb." 
Matthew27:62 The next day, following the Day of Preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees gathered before Pilate," 
Matthew27:63 saying, “Sir, we remember that deceiver saying while He was still alive, ‘After three days I will rise.’" 
Matthew27:64 Therefore command that the tomb be made secure until the third day, lest His disciples come by night and steal Him away, and tell the people, ‘He has risen from the dead.’ The last deception will be worse than the first.”" 
Matthew27:65 Pilate said to them, “You have a guard. Go your way. Make it as secure as you can.”" 
Matthew27:66 So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and posting the guard. 
Matthew28:1 At the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb." 
Matthew28:2 And behold, there was a great earthquake. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat on it." 
Matthew28:3 His countenance was like lightning, and his garments white as snow." 
Matthew28:4 The soldiers shook for fear of him and became like dead men. 
Matthew28:5 The angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid. For I know that you are looking for Jesus who was crucified." 
Matthew28:6 He is not here. For He has risen, as He said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay." 
Matthew28:7 Then go quickly and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead, and behold, He is going before you to Galilee. There you will see Him. Listen, I have told you.”" 
Matthew28:8 So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring His disciples word." 
Matthew28:9 As they went to tell His disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, “Greetings!” They came and took hold of His feet and worshipped Him." 
Matthew28:10 Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid. Go tell My brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see Me.”" 
Matthew28:11 While they were going, behold, some of the soldiers went into the city and described to the chief priests everything that had happened." 
Matthew28:12 When the chief priests were assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave much money to the soldiers," 
Matthew28:13 saying, “You are to say, ‘His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we were sleeping.’" 
Matthew28:14 If this comes to the governor’s ears, we will satisfy him and keep you secure.”" 
Matthew28:15 So they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this saying has been commonly reported among the Jews to this day. 
Matthew28:16 Then the eleven disciples went away to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them." 
Matthew28:17 When they saw Him, they worshipped Him. But some doubted." 
Matthew28:18 Then Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, “All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth." 
Matthew28:19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit," 
Matthew28:20 teaching them to observe all things I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen." 
Mark1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God." 
Mark1:2 As it is written in the Prophets: “Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.”" 
Mark1:3 “The voice of one crying in the wilderness: ‘Prepare the way of the Lord, make His paths straight.’ ”" 
Mark1:4 John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. 
Mark1:4 John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. 
Mark1:5 The whole region of Judea and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins." 
Mark1:5 The whole region of Judea and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins." 
Mark1:6 John was clothed with camel’s hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey. 
Mark1:6 John was clothed with camel’s hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey. 
Mark1:7 He preached saying, “After me is coming One mightier than I, the straps of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and untie." 
Mark1:8 I indeed have baptized you with water, but He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”" 
Mark1:9 In those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
Mark1:9 In those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
Mark1:10 Coming up out of the water, He immediately saw the heavens opened and the Spirit descending on Him like a dove." 
Mark1:11 And a voice came from heaven, saying, “You are My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.”" 
Mark1:12 The Spirit immediately drove Him into the wilderness. 
Mark1:13 And He was there in the wilderness for forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts. And the angels ministered to Him." 
Mark1:14 After John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God," 
Mark1:14 After John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God," 
Mark1:15 saying, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel.”" 
Mark1:16 As He walked by the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, his brother, throwing a net into the sea, for they were fishermen." 
Mark1:17 Jesus said to them, “Come, follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men.”" 
Mark1:18 Immediately they left their nets and followed Him. 
Mark1:19 When He had gone a little farther from there, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John, his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets." 
Mark1:19 When He had gone a little farther from there, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John, his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets." 
Mark1:19 When He had gone a little farther from there, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John, his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets." 
Mark1:20 Immediately He called them. And they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed Him. 
Mark1:21 They went to Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath He entered the synagogue and taught." 
Mark1:22 They were astonished at His teaching, for He taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes." 
Mark1:23 In their synagogue there was a man with an unclean spirit. 
Mark1:24 And he cried out, “Leave us alone! What do You have to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are, the Holy One of God.”" 
Mark1:25 Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent and come out of him!”" 
Mark1:26 When the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, it came out of him." 
Mark1:27 They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, “What is this? What new teaching is this? With authority He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey Him.”" 
Mark1:28 Immediately His fame spread everywhere throughout the region surrounding Galilee. 
Mark1:29 When He came out of the synagogue with James and John, they went directly to the house of Simon and Andrew." 
Mark1:29 When He came out of the synagogue with James and John, they went directly to the house of Simon and Andrew." 
Mark1:29 When He came out of the synagogue with James and John, they went directly to the house of Simon and Andrew." 
Mark1:30 The mother of Simon’s wife lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told Him of her." 
Mark1:31 So He came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her. And she served them." 
Mark1:32 In the evening, when the sun had set, they brought to Him all who were sick and those who were possessed with demons." 
Mark1:33 The whole city was gathered at the door," 
Mark1:34 and He healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons. And He did not let the demons speak, because they knew Him." 
Mark1:35 In the morning, rising up a great while before sunrise, He went out and departed to a solitary place. And there He prayed." 
Mark1:36 Simon and those who were with Him followed Him," 
Mark1:37 and when they found Him, they said to Him, “Everyone is searching for You.”" 
Mark1:38 He said to them, “Let us go into the nearby towns, that I may preach there also. For that is why I have come.”" 
Mark1:39 So He preached in their synagogues throughout Galilee and cast out demons. 
Mark1:40 A leper came to Him, pleading with Him and kneeling before Him, saying, “If You are willing, You can make me clean.”" 
Mark1:41 Then Jesus, moved with compassion, extended His hand and touched him, and said to him, “I will. Be clean.”" 
Mark1:42 As soon as He had spoken, the leprosy immediately departed from him, and he was cleansed." 
Mark1:43 He sternly warned him, and sent him away at once," 
Mark1:44 saying, “See that you say nothing to anyone. But go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”" 
Mark1:45 Instead he went out and began to proclaim it widely and to spread the news around, so that Jesus could no more openly enter the city, but was out in remote places. And they came to Him from everywhere." 
Mark2:1 Again, He entered Capernaum after some days. And it was reported that He was in the house." 
Mark2:2 Immediately many were gathered together, so that there was no room to receive them, not even at the door. And He preached the word to them." 
Mark2:3 They came to Him bringing one sick with paralysis, who was carried by four men." 
Mark2:4 When they could not come near Him due to the crowding, they uncovered the roof where He was. When they had broken it open, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay." 
Mark2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, He said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven you.”" 
Mark2:6 But some of the scribes were sitting there, reasoning in their hearts," 
Mark2:7 “Why does this Man speak such blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?” 
Mark2:8 Immediately, when Jesus perceived in His spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, He said to them, “Why do you contemplate these things in your hearts?" 
Mark2:9 Which is easier to say to the paralytic: ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise, take up your bed and walk’?" 
Mark2:10 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,” He said to the paralytic," 
Mark2:11 “I say to you, rise, and take up your bed, and go your way to your house.”" 
Mark2:12 Immediately he rose, picked up the bed, and went out in front of them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, “We never saw anything like this!”" 
Mark2:13 He went out again by the seaside, and the whole crowd came to Him, and He taught them." 
Mark2:14 As He passed by, He saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax collector’s station, and He said to him, “Follow Me.” And he rose and followed Him." 
Mark2:15 As Jesus was at supper in his house, many tax collectors and sinners also sat together with Jesus and His disciples. For there were many, and they followed Him." 
Mark2:16 When the scribes and Pharisees saw Him eating with tax collectors and sinners, they said to His disciples, “How is it that He eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners?”" 
Mark2:17 When Jesus heard it, He said to them, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”" 
Mark2:18 Now the disciples of John and of the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to Him, “Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Mark2:18 Now the disciples of John and of the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to Him, “Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Mark2:19 Jesus said to them, “Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast." 
Mark2:20 But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days." 
Mark2:21 “No one sews a piece of new cloth on an old garment, or else the new piece that covered it tears away from the old, and the tear is made worse." 
Mark2:22 And no one pours new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine bursts the wineskins, and the wine is spilled, and the wineskins will be marred. But new wine must be poured into new wineskins.”" 
Mark2:23 He went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. As they went, His disciples began to pluck the heads of grain." 
Mark2:24 The Pharisees said to Him, “Look, why are they doing on the Sabbath what is not lawful?”" 
Mark2:25 He said to them, “Have you never read what David did, when he and those who were with him were in need and hungry:" 
Mark2:26 how he went into the house of God, in the days Abiathar was the high priest, and ate the ritual bread, which is lawful only for the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?”" 
Mark2:27 Then He said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath." 
Mark2:28 So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.” 
Mark3:1 Again, He entered the synagogue, and there was a man who had a withered hand." 
Mark3:2 They watched Him to see whether He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse Him." 
Mark3:3 He said to the man who had the withered hand, “Stand up.”" 
Mark3:4 Then He said to them, “Is it lawful to do good or to do evil on the Sabbath, to save life or to kill?” But they kept silent." 
Mark3:5 When He had looked around at them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man, “Stretch your hand forward.” He stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other." 
Mark3:6 Then the Pharisees went out and immediately took counsel with the Herodians against Him, how to kill Him." 
Mark3:7 Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea. And a great crowd followed Him from Galilee and Judea 
Mark3:7 Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea. And a great crowd followed Him from Galilee and Judea 
Mark3:8 and Jerusalem, and Idumea, and from beyond the Jordan. And those from Tyre and Sidon, a great crowd, when they heard what great things He did, came to Him." 
Mark3:9 He told the disciples to have a small boat ready for Him because of the crowd, lest they should crush Him." 
Mark3:10 For He had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed on Him to touch Him." 
Mark3:11 When unclean spirits saw Him, they fell down before Him, crying out, “You are the Son of God.”" 
Mark3:12 But He sternly ordered them not to make Him known. 
Mark3:13 He went up into the mountain and called to Him those whom He desired, and they came to Him." 
Mark3:14 He ordained twelve to be with Him, and to be sent out to preach," 
Mark3:15 and to have authority to heal sicknesses and to cast out demons: 
Mark3:16 Simon, whom He named Peter;" 
Mark3:17 James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, whom he named Boanerges (meaning Sons of Thunder);" 
Mark3:17 James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, whom he named Boanerges (meaning Sons of Thunder);" 
Mark3:17 James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, whom he named Boanerges (meaning Sons of Thunder);" 
Mark3:18 Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas; and James the son of Alphaeus; and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;" 
Mark3:18 Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas; and James the son of Alphaeus; and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;" 
Mark3:18 Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas; and James the son of Alphaeus; and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;" 
Mark3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Him." 
Mark3:20 Then they entered a house, and the crowd came together again, so that they could not even eat bread." 
Mark3:21 When His family heard of it, they went out to seize Him, for they said, “He is beside Himself.”" 
Mark3:22 And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, “He is possessed by Beelzebub, and by the ruler of the demons He casts out demons.”" 
Mark3:23 So He called them to Him and said to them in parables, “How can Satan cast out Satan?" 
Mark3:24 If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand." 
Mark3:25 If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand." 
Mark3:26 And if Satan rises up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end." 
Mark3:27 No one can enter a strong man’s house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man. Then he will plunder his house." 
Mark3:28 Truly I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they speak." 
Mark3:29 But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal condemnation.”" 
Mark3:30 For they said, “He has an unclean spirit.”" 
Mark3:31 Then His mother and His brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to Him, calling Him." 
Mark3:32 The crowd sat around Him and said to Him, “Your mother and Your brothers are outside asking for You.”" 
Mark3:33 He answered, “Who are My mother and My brothers?”" 
Mark3:34 Then He looked around at those who sat around Him and said, “Here are My mother and My brothers!" 
Mark3:35 For whoever does the will of God is My brother, and My sister, and My mother.”" 
Mark4:1 Again He began to teach by the seaside. A large crowd was gathered before Him, so that He entered a boat and sat in it on the sea. And the whole crowd was by the sea on the land." 
Mark4:2 He taught them many things in parables and said to them in His teaching: 
Mark4:3 “Listen! Behold, a sower went out to sow." 
Mark4:4 As he sowed, some seed fell beside the path, and the birds of the air came and devoured it." 
Mark4:5 Some seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and soon it sprang up, because it did not have deep soil." 
Mark4:6 But when the sun rose, it was scorched. And because it had no root, it withered away." 
Mark4:7 Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain." 
Mark4:8 And other seed fell on good ground, and it yielded grain that sprang up and increased by thirty, sixty, or a hundred times as much.”" 
Mark4:9 Then He said to them, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Mark4:10 When He was alone, those who were around Him with the twelve asked Him about the parable." 
Mark4:11 He said to them, “To you is given the secret of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, everything is said in parables," 
Mark4:12 so that ‘seeing they may see, and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand; lest they should turn, and their sins be forgiven them.’ ”" 
Mark4:13 Then He said to them, “Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?" 
Mark4:14 The sower sows the word. 
Mark4:15 These are those beside the path, where the word is sown. But when they hear, Satan comes immediately and takes away the word which is sown in their hearts." 
Mark4:16 Others, likewise, are seed sown on rocky ground, who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with gladness," 
Mark4:17 but have no root in themselves, and so endure for a time. Afterward, when affliction or persecution rises for the word’s sake, immediately they fall away." 
Mark4:18 And others are seed sown among thorns, the ones who hear the word." 
Mark4:19 But the cares of this age, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things entering in choke the word, and it proves unfruitful." 
Mark4:20 Still others are seed sown on good ground, those who hear the word, and receive it, and bear fruit: thirty, sixty, and some a hundred times as much.”" 
Mark4:21 He said to them, “Is a candle brought to be put under a basket or under a bed and not to be set on a candlestick?" 
Mark4:22 For there is nothing hidden except to be revealed; neither is anything kept secret except to be proclaimed. 
Mark4:23 If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Mark4:24 He said to them, “Take heed what you hear. The measure you give will be measured for you, and to you who hear will more be given." 
Mark4:25 For to him who has will more be given. And from him who has not will be taken, even what he has.”" 
Mark4:26 He said, “The kingdom of God is like a man who scatters seed on the ground." 
Mark4:27 He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; he does not know how." 
Mark4:28 For the earth bears fruit by itself: first the blade, then the head, then the full seed in the head." 
Mark4:29 But when the grain is ripe, immediately he applies the sickle, because the harvest has come.”" 
Mark4:30 He said, “To what shall we liken the kingdom of God, or with what parable shall we compare it?" 
Mark4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed which, when it is sown in the ground, is the smallest seed on earth." 
Mark4:32 Yet when it is sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all shrubs, and shoots out great branches, so that the birds of the air may nest in its shade.”" 
Mark4:33 With many such parables He spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. 
Mark4:34 Without a parable He did not speak to them. But when they were alone, He expounded on all things to His disciples." 
Mark4:35 That same day, when the evening came, He said to them, “Let us go cross to the other side.”" 
Mark4:36 When they had sent the crowd away, they took Him in the boat just as He was. There were also other little boats with Him." 
Mark4:37 A great windstorm arose, and the waves splashed into the boat, so that it was now filling the boat." 
Mark4:38 He was in the stern asleep on a pillow. They woke Him and said, “Teacher, do You not care that we are perishing?”" 
Mark4:39 He rose and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, “Peace, be still!” Then the wind ceased and there was a great calm." 
Mark4:40 He said to them, “Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith?”" 
Mark4:41 They feared greatly and said to one another, “What kind of Man is He, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?”" 
Mark5:1 They went to the other side of the sea to the region of the Gadarenes. 
Mark5:2 When He had come out of the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit came out of the tombs and met Him." 
Mark5:3 He lived among the tombs. And no one could constrain him, not even with chains," 
Mark5:4 because he had often been bound with shackles and chains. But he had pulled the chains apart and broken the shackles to pieces. And no one could subdue him. 
Mark5:5 Always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying out and cutting himself with stones." 
Mark5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran up and knelt before Him," 
Mark5:7 and cried out with a loud voice, “What have You to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure You by God, do not torment me.”" 
Mark5:8 For Jesus said to him, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!”" 
Mark5:9 Then He asked him, “What is your name?” He answered, “My name is Legion. For we are many.”" 
Mark5:10 And he begged Him repeatedly not to send them away out of the country. 
Mark5:11 Now there was a great herd of swine feeding near the mountains. 
Mark5:12 All the demons pleaded with Him, asking, “Send us to the swine, so that we may enter them.”" 
Mark5:13 At once, Jesus gave them leave. Then the unclean spirits came out and entered the swine. And the herd, numbering about two thousand, ran wildly down a steep hill into the sea and were drowned in the sea." 
Mark5:14 Those who fed the swine fled and reported it in the city and in the country. And people went out to see what it was that had happened. 
Mark5:15 They came to Jesus and saw him who had been possessed with the legion of demons sitting and clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid. 
Mark5:16 Those who saw it told them how it befell him who had been possessed with the demons and also concerning the swine. 
Mark5:17 Then they began to plead with Him to depart out of their region. 
Mark5:18 When He entered the boat, he who had been possessed with the demons prayed Him that he might be with Him." 
Mark5:19 Jesus did not let him, but said to him, “Go home to your friends and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you and how He has had compassion on you.”" 
Mark5:20 So he departed and began to proclaim in the Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him. And everyone was amazed. 
Mark5:21 When Jesus had crossed again by boat to the other side, many people gathered to Him. And He was beside the sea." 
Mark5:22 One of the rulers of the synagogue, named Jairus, saw Jesus and came and fell at His feet" 
Mark5:23 and earnestly asked Him, “My little daughter is lying at the point of death. I ask You, come and lay Your hands on her, so that she may be healed. And she will live.”" 
Mark5:24 So Jesus went with him. And many people followed Him and pressed in on Him. 
Mark5:25 And a certain woman had a hemorrhage for twelve years," 
Mark5:26 and had suffered much under many physicians. She had spent all that she had, and was not better but rather grew worse." 
Mark5:27 When she had heard of Jesus, she came in the crowd behind Him and touched His garment." 
Mark5:28 For she said, “If I may touch His garments, I shall be healed.”" 
Mark5:29 And immediately her hemorrhage dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction." 
Mark5:30 At once, Jesus knew within Himself that power had gone out of Him. He turned around in the crowd and said, “Who touched My garments?”" 
Mark5:31 His disciples said to Him, “You see the crowd pressing against You, and You say, ‘Who touched Me?’  ”" 
Mark5:32 And He looked around to see her who had done it. 
Mark5:33 But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before Him and told Him the entire truth." 
Mark5:34 He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace, and be healed of your affliction.”" 
Mark5:35 While He was still speaking, some came from the house of the synagogue ruler and said, “Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?”" 
Mark5:36 As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, He said to the ruler of the synagogue, “Do not be afraid, only believe.”" 
Mark5:37 He let no one follow Him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James." 
Mark5:37 He let no one follow Him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James." 
Mark5:37 He let no one follow Him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James." 
Mark5:38 He came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and saw the tumult, and those who wept and wailed loudly." 
Mark5:39 When He came in, He said to them, “Why make this uproar and weep? The girl is not dead, but sleeping.”" 
Mark5:40 They laughed at Him in ridicule. But when He had put them all out, He took the father and the mother of the girl and those who were with Him and entered where the girl was lying." 
Mark5:41 He took the girl by the hand and said to her, “Talitha cumi,” which means, “Little girl, I say to you, arise.”" 
Mark5:42 Immediately the girl arose and walked, for she was twelve years of age. And they were greatly astonished." 
Mark5:43 He strictly ordered them to let no one know of it and directed them to give her something to eat. 
Mark6:1 He went away from there and came into His own country. And His disciples followed Him. 
Mark6:2 When the Sabbath came, He began to teach in the synagogue. And many hearing Him were astonished, saying, “Where did this Man get this? What is this wisdom that is given Him, that even miracles are done by His hands?" 
Mark6:3 Is this not the carpenter, the Son of Mary and the brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon? Are not His sisters here with us?” And they took offense at Him." 
Mark6:3 Is this not the carpenter, the Son of Mary and the brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon? Are not His sisters here with us?” And they took offense at Him." 
Mark6:4 Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, and among his own relatives, and in his own house.”" 
Mark6:5 He could not do any miracles there, except that He laid His hands on a few sick people and healed them." 
Mark6:6 And He was amazed, because of their unbelief. Then He went to the surrounding villages, teaching." 
Mark6:7 He called to Him the twelve, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over unclean spirits." 
Mark6:8 He commanded them to take nothing for their journey except a staff: no bag, no bread, and no money in their belt," 
Mark6:9 but to wear sandals, and not put on two tunics." 
Mark6:10 He said to them, “Wherever you enter a house, remain there until you depart from that place." 
Mark6:11 And whoever will not receive you or hear you, when you depart from there, shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them. Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah on the Day of Judgment than for that city.”" 
Mark6:12 So they went out and preached that men should repent. 
Mark6:13 And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. 
Mark6:14 King Herod heard of Him, for His name was spread publicly. He said, “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and therefore these miracles are at work in him.”" 
Mark6:14 King Herod heard of Him, for His name was spread publicly. He said, “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and therefore these miracles are at work in him.”" 
Mark6:15 But others said, “He is Elijah.” And yet others said, “He is the Prophet, or like one of the prophets.”" 
Mark6:16 But when Herod heard of it, he said, “It is John, whom I beheaded. He has been raised from the dead!”" 
Mark6:16 But when Herod heard of it, he said, “It is John, whom I beheaded. He has been raised from the dead!”" 
Mark6:17 Herod had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, for he had married her." 
Mark6:17 Herod had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, for he had married her." 
Mark6:18 For John said to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.”" 
Mark6:18 For John said to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.”" 
Mark6:19 So Herodias had a grudge against him and would have killed him, but she could not," 
Mark6:20 for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he protected him. And when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly." 
Mark6:20 for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he protected him. And when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly." 
Mark6:21 But a convenient day came when Herod on his birthday prepared a ceremonial dinner for his lords and commanding officers and leading men of Galilee. 
Mark6:22 When the daughter of Herodias came in and danced and pleased Herod and those who sat with him, the king said to the girl, “Ask of me whatever you desire, and I will give it to you.”" 
Mark6:23 And he swore to her, “Whatever you ask of me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.”" 
Mark6:24 She went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask?” She said, “The head of John the Baptist.”" 
Mark6:24 She went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask?” She said, “The head of John the Baptist.”" 
Mark6:25 She came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, “I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter at once.”" 
Mark6:25 She came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, “I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter at once.”" 
Mark6:26 The king was extremely sorrowful. Yet for the sake of his oath and those who sat with him, he would not reject her." 
Mark6:27 So the king immediately sent an executioner and commanded his head to be brought. He went and beheaded him in the prison," 
Mark6:28 and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl. And the girl gave it to her mother." 
Mark6:29 When his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his corpse and laid it in a tomb." 
Mark6:30 The apostles met with Jesus and told him everything, both what they had done and what they had taught." 
Mark6:31 Then He said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a remote place and rest a while,” for many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat." 
Mark6:32 So they went into a remote place privately by boat. 
Mark6:33 But the people saw them departing, and many knew Him and ran there on foot out of every city. They arrived first and came together to Him." 
Mark6:34 When Jesus came out and saw many people, He was moved with compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And He began to teach them many things." 
Mark6:35 When the day was now getting late, His disciples came to Him and said, “This is a remote place, and now the time is passing." 
Mark6:36 Send them away into the surrounding country and villages to buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat.”" 
Mark6:37 But He answered them, “You give them something to eat.” They said to Him, “Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?”" 
Mark6:38 He said to them, “How many loaves have you? Go and see.” When they found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.”" 
Mark6:39 Then He commanded them to make everyone sit down by companies on the green grass. 
Mark6:40 So they sat down in ranks, by hundreds and by fifties." 
Mark6:41 When He had taken the five loaves and the two fish, He looked up to heaven, and blessed and broke the loaves, and gave them to His disciples to set before them. And He divided the two fish among them all." 
Mark6:42 They all ate and were filled. 
Mark6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments and of the fish. 
Mark6:44 Those who ate of the loaves were about five thousand men. 
Mark6:45 Immediately He compelled His disciples to get into the boat and to go before Him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while He sent the crowd away." 
Mark6:46 When He had sent them away, He departed to a mountain to pray." 
Mark6:47 When evening came, the boat was in the midst of the sea. And He was alone on the land." 
Mark6:48 He saw them straining at rowing, for the wind was against them. About the fourth watch of the night He came to them, walking on the sea and would have passed by them." 
Mark6:49 But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they supposed it was a ghost, and cried out." 
Mark6:50 For they all saw Him and were troubled. Immediately He spoke to them and said, “Be of good cheer, it is I. Do not be afraid.”" 
Mark6:51 Then He went up to them in the boat and the wind ceased. They were greatly astonished in themselves beyond measure, and wondered." 
Mark6:52 For they had not comprehended the miracle of the loaves, for their hearts were hardened." 
Mark6:53 When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret and anchored on the shore." 
Mark6:54 When they had come out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Him," 
Mark6:55 and ran throughout the surrounding region, and began to carry the sick on beds to wherever they heard He was." 
Mark6:56 And wherever He entered, into villages, cities, or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and pleaded with Him that they might touch even the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched Him were healed." 
Mark7:1 The Pharisees and certain scribes who came from Jerusalem gathered around Him. 
Mark7:2 When they saw some of His disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, ritually unwashed hands, they found fault." 
Mark7:3 For the Pharisees and all the Jews, unless they wash their hands ritually, do not eat, keeping the tradition of the elders." 
Mark7:4 When they come from the market, unless they wash, they do not eat. And there are many other traditions which they have received and observe, such as the washing of cups and pitchers and bronze vessels and dining couches." 
Mark7:5 So the Pharisees and scribes asked Him, “Why do Your disciples not live according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands?”" 
Mark7:6 He answered, “Isaiah has prophesied well about you hypocrites, as it is written: ‘These people honor Me with their lips, but their hearts are far from Me." 
Mark7:7 In vain do they worship Me, teaching as instructions from the precepts of men.’" 
Mark7:8 For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men—the washing of pitchers and cups, and many other such things you do.”" 
Mark7:9 And He said to them, “You full well reject the commandment of God so that you may keep your own tradition." 
Mark7:10 For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever curses father or mother, let him be put to death.’" 
Mark7:11 But you say, ‘If a man says to his father or mother, “It is Corban,” that is to say, “What you would have profited from me is a gift to God,” he shall be free.’" 
Mark7:12 Then you no longer let him do anything for his father or his mother," 
Mark7:13 making the word of God of no effect through your tradition, which you have delivered. And you do many similar things.”" 
Mark7:14 When He had called all the people to Him, He said, “Listen to Me, every one of you, and understand:" 
Mark7:15 There is nothing from outside a man that by entering him can defile him. But the things which come out of the man are what defile him. 
Mark7:16 If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Mark7:17 When He had left the people and entered the house, His disciples asked Him concerning the parable." 
Mark7:18 He said to them, “Are you so without understanding also? Do you not know that anything from the outside that enters a man cannot defile him," 
Mark7:19 because it does not enter his heart, but into his stomach, and goes out into the sewer, thus purifying all foods?”" 
Mark7:20 And He said, “What comes out of a man is what defiles a man." 
Mark7:21 For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adultery, fornication, murder," 
Mark7:22 theft, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, licentiousness, an envious eye, blasphemy, pride, and foolishness." 
Mark7:23 All these evil things come from within and defile a man.” 
Mark7:24 From there He arose and went to the region of Tyre and Sidon. He entered a house and would have no one know it. Yet He could not be hidden. 
Mark7:25 For a certain woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of Him, and came and fell at His feet." 
Mark7:26 The woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. And she begged Him to cast the demon out of her daughter." 
Mark7:27 Jesus said to her, “Let the children first be filled. For it is not fitting to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”" 
Mark7:28 But she answered Him, “Yes, Lord. Yet the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”" 
Mark7:29 Then He said to her, “For this answer, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter.”" 
Mark7:30 When she had come to her house, she found the demon had gone out, and her daughter lying on the bed." 
Mark7:31 Again, departing from the region of Tyre and Sidon, He came to the Sea of Galilee, through the region of the Decapolis." 
Mark7:32 They brought to Him one who was deaf and had difficulty speaking. And they pleaded with Him to put His hand on him. 
Mark7:33 He took him aside from the crowd, and put His fingers into his ears, and spit and touched his tongue." 
Mark7:34 Looking up to heaven, He sighed, and said to him, “Ephphatha,” that is, “Be opened.”" 
Mark7:35 Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was loosened, and he spoke correctly." 
Mark7:36 He ordered them to tell no one. But the more He ordered them, the more they greatly proclaimed it." 
Mark7:37 They were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He makes both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak.”" 
Mark8:1 In those days, the crowds being very great with nothing to eat, Jesus called His disciples to Him and said to them," 
Mark8:2 “I have compassion on the crowd, because they have now been with Me three days and have nothing to eat." 
Mark8:3 If I send them away fasting to their own houses, they will faint on the way, for some of them have come from afar.”" 
Mark8:4 His disciples answered, “Where can one get bread to feed these men here in the wilderness?”" 
Mark8:5 He asked them, “How many loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven.”" 
Mark8:6 He commanded the people to sit down on the ground. Taking the seven loaves and giving thanks, He broke them and gave them to His disciples to serve. And they served the crowd." 
Mark8:7 And they had a few small fish. And blessing them, He commanded that these also be served them." 
Mark8:8 So they ate and were filled. And they collected seven baskets of the broken pieces that were left. 
Mark8:9 There were about four thousand who had eaten, and He sent them away." 
Mark8:10 He immediately entered a boat with His disciples and came to the region of Dalmanutha. 
Mark8:11 The Pharisees came up and began to debate with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven to test Him." 
Mark8:12 He sighed deeply in His spirit and said, “Why does this generation look for a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation.”" 
Mark8:13 Then He left them and, entering the boat again, departed to the other side." 
Mark8:14 Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread and did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat. 
Mark8:15 He warned them, “Take heed. Beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and the yeast of Herod.”" 
Mark8:16 They reasoned among themselves, saying, “It is because we have no bread.”" 
Mark8:17 Being aware of it, Jesus said to them, “Why do you reason that you have no bread? Do you still not perceive or understand? Are your hearts still hardened?" 
Mark8:18 Having eyes, do you not see? Having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember?" 
Mark8:19 When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you collect?” They said to Him, “Twelve.”" 
Mark8:20 “And the seven among the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you collect?” They said, “Seven.”" 
Mark8:21 He said to them, “Do you still not understand?”" 
Mark8:22 He came to Bethsaida. And they brought a blind man to Him and entreated Him to touch him. 
Mark8:23 He took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. When He had spit on his eyes and put His hands on him, He asked him, “Do you see anything?”" 
Mark8:24 He looked up and said, “I see men as trees, walking.”" 
Mark8:25 Then again He put His hands on his eyes and made him look up. And he was restored and saw everyone clearly. 
Mark8:26 He sent him home away to his house, saying, “Neither go into the town, nor tell it to anyone in the town.”" 
Mark8:27 Jesus and His disciples went out into the towns of Caesarea Philippi. On the way He asked His disciples, “Who do men say that I am?”" 
Mark8:28 They answered, “John the Baptist, but some say, Elijah; and others, one of the prophets.”" 
Mark8:28 They answered, “John the Baptist, but some say, Elijah; and others, one of the prophets.”" 
Mark8:29 He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered Him, “You are the Christ.”" 
Mark8:30 He warned them that they should tell no one about Him. 
Mark8:31 He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again." 
Mark8:32 He said this openly. And Peter took Him and began to rebuke Him. 
Mark8:33 But when He had turned around and looked at His disciples, He rebuked Peter, saying, “Get behind Me, Satan! For you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men.”" 
Mark8:34 When He had called the people to Him, with His disciples, He said to them, “If any man would come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me." 
Mark8:35 For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever would lose his life for My sake and the gospel’s will save it. 
Mark8:36 For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? 
Mark8:37 Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? 
Mark8:38 Whoever therefore is ashamed of Me and of My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when He comes in the glory of His Father with the holy angels.”" 
Mark9:1 And He said to them, “Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God come with power.”" 
Mark9:2 After six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John and led them up a high mountain, alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them." 
Mark9:2 After six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John and led them up a high mountain, alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them." 
Mark9:2 After six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John and led them up a high mountain, alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them." 
Mark9:3 His garments became shiny, extremely white as snow, such as no launderer on earth could whiten them." 
Mark9:4 And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses. And they were talking with Jesus. 
Mark9:5 Then Peter said to Jesus, “Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three sanctuaries: one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”" 
Mark9:6 For he did not know what to say, because they were very afraid." 
Mark9:7 Then a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is My beloved Son. Listen to Him.”" 
Mark9:8 Suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone with them except Jesus only." 
Mark9:9 As they came down the mountain, He warned them to tell no one what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead." 
Mark9:10 They kept that statement to themselves, questioning each other what the rising from the dead meant." 
Mark9:11 And they asked Him, “Why do the scribes say that Elijah must first come?”" 
Mark9:12 He answered, “Elijah indeed comes first to restore all things. Yet how is it written of the Son of Man that He should suffer many things and be treated with contempt?" 
Mark9:13 But I say to you that Elijah has indeed come, and they have done to him whatever they wished, as it is written of him.”" 
Mark9:14 When He came to His other disciples, He saw a great crowd around them, and the scribes disputing with them." 
Mark9:15 Immediately when all the people saw Him, they were greatly amazed, and running to Him, greeted Him." 
Mark9:16 He asked the scribes, “What are you debating with them?”" 
Mark9:17 Someone in the crowd answered, “Teacher, I brought You my son, who has a mute spirit." 
Mark9:18 Wherever it takes hold on him, it dashes him to the ground. And he foams at the mouth and gnashes with his teeth and becomes rigid. And I told Your disciples so that they would cast it out, but they could not.”" 
Mark9:19 He answered, “O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to Me.”" 
Mark9:20 So they brought the boy to Him. When he saw Him, immediately the spirit dashed him, and he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming at the mouth." 
Mark9:21 He asked his father, “How long has it been since it came to him?” He said, “From childhood." 
Mark9:22 Often it has thrown him into the fire and into the water to kill him. But if You can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.”" 
Mark9:23 Jesus said, “If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.”" 
Mark9:24 Immediately the father of the child cried out with tears, “Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief!”" 
Mark9:25 When Jesus saw that the people came running together, He rebuked the foul spirit, saying to it, “You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him, and enter him no more.”" 
Mark9:26 The spirit cried out and convulsed him greatly. But it came out of him, and he was as dead, so that many said, “He is dead.”" 
Mark9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose." 
Mark9:28 When He had entered the house, His disciples asked Him privately, “Why could we not cast it out?”" 
Mark9:29 He said to them, “This kind cannot come out except by prayer and fasting.”" 
Mark9:30 They departed from there and passed through Galilee, and He did not want anyone to know it." 
Mark9:31 For He was teaching His disciples, saying, “The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill Him. After He is killed, He will rise the third day.”" 
Mark9:32 But they did not understand the teaching and were afraid to ask Him. 
Mark9:33 He came to Capernaum. And being in the house, He asked them, “What was it that you disputed among yourselves on the way?”" 
Mark9:34 But they kept silent, for on the way they had disputed among themselves who was the greatest." 
Mark9:35 He sat down and called the twelve. And He said to them, “If anyone desires to be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.”" 
Mark9:36 He took a child and set him in their midst. And when He had taken him in His arms, He said to them," 
Mark9:37 “Whoever receives one of these children in My name receives Me. And whoever receives Me receives not Me, but Him who sent Me.”" 
Mark9:38 John answered Him, “Teacher, we saw one who does not follow us casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him, because he was not following us.”" 
Mark9:38 John answered Him, “Teacher, we saw one who does not follow us casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him, because he was not following us.”" 
Mark9:39 But Jesus said, “Do not forbid him, for no one who does a miracle in My name can quickly speak evil of Me." 
Mark9:40 For he who is not against us is for us. 
Mark9:41 Truly I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in My name, because you belong to Christ, will not lose his reward." 
Mark9:42 “Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in Me to sin, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea." 
Mark9:43 If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life maimed than with two hands to go into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched," 
Mark9:44 where ‘their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.’" 
Mark9:45 And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched," 
Mark9:46 where ‘their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.’" 
Mark9:47 And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire," 
Mark9:48 where ‘their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.’" 
Mark9:49 Everyone will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be salted with salt." 
Mark9:50 “Salt is good. But if the salt loses its saltiness, how will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace with one another.”" 
Mark10:1 He arose and went from there to the region of Judea to the other side of the Jordan, and the people came to Him again. And again, as was His custom, He taught them." 
Mark10:1 He arose and went from there to the region of Judea to the other side of the Jordan, and the people came to Him again. And again, as was His custom, He taught them." 
Mark10:2 The Pharisees came to test Him, asking, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?”" 
Mark10:3 He answered them, “What did Moses command you?”" 
Mark10:4 They said, “Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to divorce her.”" 
Mark10:5 But Jesus said to them, “Due to the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept." 
Mark10:6 But from the beginning of the creation, God ‘made them male and female.’" 
Mark10:7 ‘For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cling to his wife," 
Mark10:8 and the two shall be one flesh.’ So then they are no longer two, but one flesh." 
Mark10:9 What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder.”" 
Mark10:10 In the house His disciples asked Him concerning this matter again. 
Mark10:11 He said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her." 
Mark10:12 And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.”" 
Mark10:13 They brought young children to Him, that He might bless them. But the disciples rebuked those who brought them." 
Mark10:14 But when Jesus saw it, He was very displeased and said to them, “Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God." 
Mark10:15 Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall not enter it.”" 
Mark10:16 And He took them up in His arms, put His hands on them, and blessed them." 
Mark10:17 When He set out on His way, a man came running and knelt before Him, and asked Him, “Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”" 
Mark10:18 He said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good, except God alone." 
Mark10:19 You know the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother. ”" 
Mark10:20 He said to Him, “Teacher, all these have I observed from my youth.”" 
Mark10:21 Then Jesus, looking upon him, loved him and said to him, “You lack one thing: Go your way, sell whatever you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, take up the cross and follow Me.”" 
Mark10:22 He was saddened by that word, and he went away grieving. For he had many possessions." 
Mark10:23 Jesus looked around and said to His disciples, “How hard it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!”" 
Mark10:24 The disciples were astonished at His words. But Jesus answered again, “Children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God!" 
Mark10:25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Mark10:26 They were astonished beyond measure, saying among themselves, “Who then can be saved?”" 
Mark10:27 Jesus, looking at them, said, “With men it is impossible, but not with God. For with God all things are possible.”" 
Mark10:28 Peter began to say to Him, “Look, we have left everything and have followed You.”" 
Mark10:29 Jesus said, “Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left a house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or fields, for My sake and for the gospel’s sake," 
Mark10:30 who shall not receive a hundred times as much now in this age, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, with persecution, and in the age to come, eternal life." 
Mark10:31 But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”" 
Mark10:32 They were on the way, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus went ahead of them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. Again, He took the twelve aside and began to tell them what would happen to Him," 
Mark10:33 saying, “Listen! We are going up to Jerusalem. The Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn Him to death and hand Him over to the Gentiles." 
Mark10:34 They will mock Him, and scourge Him, and spit on Him, and kill Him. Then after three days He will rise.”" 
Mark10:35 Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying, “Teacher, we want that whatever we may ask, You would do for us.”" 
Mark10:35 Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying, “Teacher, we want that whatever we may ask, You would do for us.”" 
Mark10:35 Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying, “Teacher, we want that whatever we may ask, You would do for us.”" 
Mark10:36 He said to them, “What do you want Me to do for you?”" 
Mark10:37 They said to Him, “Grant us to sit, one at Your right hand and the other at Your left hand, in Your glory.”" 
Mark10:38 But Jesus said to them, “You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?”" 
Mark10:39 They said to Him, “We can.” Jesus said to them, “You will indeed drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized." 
Mark10:40 But to sit at My right hand or at My left hand is not Mine to grant. It is for those for whom it has been prepared.” 
Mark10:41 When the ten heard it, they began to be very displeased with James and John." 
Mark10:41 When the ten heard it, they began to be very displeased with James and John." 
Mark10:41 When the ten heard it, they began to be very displeased with James and John." 
Mark10:42 But Jesus called them together, and said, “You know that those who are appointed to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them." 
Mark10:43 But it shall not be so among you. Whoever would be great among you must be your servant," 
Mark10:44 and whoever among you would be greatest must be servant of all. 
Mark10:45 For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many.”" 
Mark10:46 Then they came to Jericho. And as He went out of Jericho with His disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat along the way begging." 
Mark10:47 When he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Mark10:48 Many ordered him to keep silent. But he cried out even more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Mark10:49 Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. So they called the blind man, saying, “Be of good comfort. Rise, He is calling you.”" 
Mark10:50 Throwing aside his garment, he rose and came to Jesus." 
Mark10:51 Then Jesus said to him, “What do you want Me to do for you?” The blind man said to Him, “Rabbi, that I might receive my sight.”" 
Mark10:52 Jesus said to him, “Go your way. Your faith has made you well.” Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the way." 
Mark11:1 When they drew near Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, He sent out two of His disciples" 
Mark11:2 and said to them, “Go into the village opposite you. As soon as you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here." 
Mark11:3 If anyone says to you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ say ‘The Lord has need of it,’ and immediately he will send it here.”" 
Mark11:4 They went their way and found the colt tied by the door outside on the street. And they untied it. 
Mark11:5 Some of those who stood there said to them, “What are you doing untying the colt?”" 
Mark11:6 They answered just as Jesus had commanded. And they let them go. 
Mark11:7 They brought the colt to Jesus and threw their garments on it. And He sat upon it. 
Mark11:8 Many spread their garments on the street. And others cut down branches off the trees and scattered them on the street. 
Mark11:9 Those who went before and those who followed cried out, saying: “Hosanna! ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’" 
Mark11:10 Blessed is the kingdom of our father David that is coming in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!” 
Mark11:11 Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple. When He had looked around at everything, as the hour was now late, He went out to Bethany with the twelve." 
Mark11:12 On the next day when they had returned from Bethany, He was hungry." 
Mark11:13 Seeing from afar a fig tree with leaves, He went to see if perhaps He might find anything on it. When He came to it, He found nothing except leaves, for it was not the season for figs." 
Mark11:14 Jesus said to it, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again.” And His disciples heard it." 
Mark11:15 And they came to Jerusalem. Jesus went into the temple and began to drive out those who sold and bought in the temple, and He overturned the tables of the moneychangers and the seats of those who sold doves." 
Mark11:16 And He would not allow anyone to carry any vessel through the temple. 
Mark11:17 He taught, saying to them, “Is it not written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations’? But you have made it a ‘den of thieves.’ ”" 
Mark11:18 The scribes and chief priests heard it and looked for a way to kill Him. For they feared Him, because all the people were astonished at His teaching." 
Mark11:19 When evening came, He went out of the city." 
Mark11:20 In the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots." 
Mark11:21 Peter, calling to remembrance, said to Him, “Rabbi, look! The fig tree which You cursed has withered away.”" 
Mark11:22 Jesus answered them, “Have faith in God." 
Mark11:23 For truly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, ‘Be removed and be thrown into the sea,’ and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, he will have whatever he says." 
Mark11:24 Therefore I say to you, whatever things you ask when you pray, believe that you will receive them, and you will have them." 
Mark11:25 And when you stand praying, forgive if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in heaven may also forgive you your sins." 
Mark11:26 But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your sins.”" 
Mark11:27 They came again to Jerusalem, and as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him," 
Mark11:28 and said, “By what authority are You doing these things, and who gave You this authority to do them?”" 
Mark11:29 Jesus said to them, “I will also ask of you one question. Answer Me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Mark11:30 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men? Answer Me.” 
Mark11:30 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men? Answer Me.” 
Mark11:31 They debated among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’" 
Mark11:32 But if we say, ‘From men’ ”—they feared the people, for everyone held John to be a real prophet." 
Mark11:32 But if we say, ‘From men’ ”—they feared the people, for everyone held John to be a real prophet." 
Mark11:33 So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” Jesus answered them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”" 
Mark12:1 He began to speak to them in parables. “A man planted a vineyard, and set a hedge around it, and dug a pit for the winepress, and built a tower, and rented it to vinedressers, and went to a far country." 
Mark12:2 At harvest time he sent a servant to the vinedressers to receive from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. 
Mark12:3 But they seized him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed. 
Mark12:4 Then he sent another servant to them. They threw stones at him, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully handled." 
Mark12:5 Still he sent another, and they killed him. And there were many others. Some they beat, and some they killed." 
Mark12:6 “Having yet his one well-beloved son, he sent him last to them, saying, ‘They will revere my son.’" 
Mark12:7 “But those vinedressers said among themselves, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.’" 
Mark12:8 So they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard. 
Mark12:9 “What then will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and kill the vinedressers and give the vineyard to others. 
Mark12:10 Have you not read this Scripture: ‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. 
Mark12:11 This was the Lord’s doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes’?”" 
Mark12:12 Then they tried to seize Him, but feared the people, for they knew that He had spoken the parable against them. So they left Him and went their way." 
Mark12:13 They sent to Him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians to trap Him in His words. 
Mark12:14 When they came to Him, they said, “Teacher, we know that You are true and swayed by no man. For You do not regard the person of men, but truthfully teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?" 
Mark12:15 Should we pay, or should we not pay?” But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, “Why test Me? Bring Me a denarius that I may see it.”" 
Mark12:16 They brought it, and He said to them, “Whose image and inscription is this?” They said to Him, “Caesar’s.”" 
Mark12:17 Then Jesus answered them, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” And they were amazed at Him." 
Mark12:18 Then the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Him, saying," 
Mark12:19 “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies and leaves his wife behind, but leaves no children, that man must take the wife and raise up children for his brother." 
Mark12:20 Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and when he died, he left no children." 
Mark12:21 The second took her and died, leaving no children, and the third likewise." 
Mark12:22 The seven had her and left no children. Last of all, the woman died too." 
Mark12:23 In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.”" 
Mark12:24 Jesus answered them, “Do you not err, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God?" 
Mark12:25 When they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven." 
Mark12:26 Now concerning the dead rising, have you not read in the Book of Moses, in the account about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, ‘I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob’?" 
Mark12:27 He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You therefore do greatly err.”" 
Mark12:28 One of the scribes came and heard them reasoning together. Perceiving that Jesus had answered them well, he asked Him, “Which is the first commandment of all?”" 
Mark12:29 Jesus answered him, “The first of all the commandments is, ‘Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord." 
Mark12:30 You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.’ This is the first commandment." 
Mark12:31 The second is this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.” 
Mark12:32 The scribe said to Him, “Well said, Teacher. You have spoken the truth, that there is one God and there is no other but Him." 
Mark12:33 To love Him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love one’s neighbor as oneself, is more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices.”" 
Mark12:34 When Jesus saw that he answered wisely, He said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” After that, no one dared to ask Him any question." 
Mark12:35 While Jesus taught in the temple, He said, “How can the scribes say that Christ is the Son of David?" 
Mark12:36 David himself, speaking by the Holy Spirit, declared: ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand, until I put Your enemies under Your feet.” ’" 
Mark12:37 David himself calls Him ‘Lord.’ How then is He his Son?” And the large crowd heard him gladly. 
Mark12:38 He said to them in His teaching, “Beware of the scribes, who love to go about in long robes and love greetings in the marketplaces," 
Mark12:39 and the prominent seats in the synagogues, and the places of honor at banquets," 
Mark12:40 who devour widows’ houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive greater condemnation.” 
Mark12:41 Jesus sat opposite the treasury and saw how the people put money into the treasury. Many who were rich put in much. 
Mark12:42 But a certain poor widow came and put in two mites, which make a farthing." 
Mark12:43 He called His disciples to Him and said to them, “Truly I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the treasury." 
Mark12:44 They all contributed out of their abundance. But she, out of her poverty, put in all that she had, her entire livelihood.”" 
Mark13:1 As He went out of the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, “Teacher, see what great stones and what great buildings are here.”" 
Mark13:2 Jesus answered him, “Do you see these great buildings? Not one stone shall be left upon another that shall not be thrown down.”" 
Mark13:3 As He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Him privately," 
Mark13:3 As He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Him privately," 
Mark13:3 As He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Him privately," 
Mark13:4 “Tell us, when will these things happen, and what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled?”" 
Mark13:5 Jesus answered them, “Take heed lest anyone deceive you." 
Mark13:6 Many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am He,’ and will deceive many." 
Mark13:7 When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be troubled. For such things must happen, but the end is still to come." 
Mark13:8 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and troubles. These are the beginning of sorrows." 
Mark13:9 “But take heed. For they will hand you over to councils, and in the synagogues you will be beaten. You will be brought before rulers and kings for My sake, as a testimony to them." 
Mark13:10 And the gospel must first be preached to all nations. 
Mark13:11 But when they arrest you and hand you over, take no thought beforehand, or premeditate what you should speak. But speak whatever is given you in that time, for it is not you who speaks, but the Holy Spirit." 
Mark13:12 “Now a brother will betray his brother to death, and the father the son; children will rise up against their parents, and will cause them to be put to death." 
Mark13:13 You will be hated by all men for My name’s sake. But he who endures to the end shall be saved. 
Mark13:14 “When you see the ‘abomination of desolation’ spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing where it should not be (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains." 
Mark13:14 “When you see the ‘abomination of desolation’ spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing where it should not be (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains." 
Mark13:15 Let him who is on the housetop not go down or enter the house to take anything out of his house. 
Mark13:16 Let him who is in the field not turn back to take his garment. 
Mark13:17 But woe to women who are pregnant and to those who nurse in those days! 
Mark13:18 Pray that your escape may not be in winter. 
Mark13:19 For in those days there will be distress as has not been from the beginning of the creation which God created to this time, nor ever shall be." 
Mark13:20 “Except the Lord shortened the days, no flesh would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, whom He chose, He shortened the days." 
Mark13:21 Then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘Look, there He is!’ do not believe it." 
Mark13:22 For false christs and false prophets will rise and show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect." 
Mark13:23 But take heed. I have told you all things beforehand. 
Mark13:24 “But in those days, after that distress, ‘the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her light;" 
Mark13:25 the stars of heaven will fall, and the powers that are in heaven will be shaken.’" 
Mark13:26 “Then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. 
Mark13:27 Then He will send His angels and gather His elect from the four winds, from the farthest part of the earth to the farthest part of heaven." 
Mark13:28 “Now learn a parable of the fig tree: When her branch is yet tender and puts out leaves, you know that summer is near." 
Mark13:29 So also, when you see these things come to pass, know that it is near, even at the doors." 
Mark13:30 Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things happen." 
Mark13:31 Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away." 
Mark13:32 “But concerning that day or hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father." 
Mark13:33 Take heed, watch and pray. For you do not know when the time will come." 
Mark13:34 For the Son of Man is like a man leaving on a far journey who left his house and gave authority to his servants and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch." 
Mark13:35 “Watch therefore—for you do not know when the master of the house is coming, in the evening, or at midnight, or at cockcrow, or in the morning—" 
Mark13:36 lest he come suddenly and find you sleeping. 
Mark13:37 What I say to you I say to all: Watch!” 
Mark14:1 Now the feasts of the Passover and of Unleavened Bread were two days away. And the chief priests and the scribes looked for a way to seize Him secretly and kill Him. 
Mark14:2 But they said “Not on the feast day, lest there will be an uproar among the people.”" 
Mark14:3 While He was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He sat at supper, a woman came with an alabaster jar of ointment, a very costly spikenard. She broke the jar and poured the ointment on His head." 
Mark14:4 There were some with indignation within themselves, saying, “Why was this ointment wasted?" 
Mark14:5 It might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor.” And they grumbled against her. 
Mark14:6 Jesus said, “Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for Me." 
Mark14:7 You always have the poor with you, and whenever you wish, you may do good to them. But you will not always have Me." 
Mark14:8 She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint My body for burial. 
Mark14:9 Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel will be preached throughout the whole world, what she has done will also be spoken of as a memorial to her.”" 
Mark14:10 Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to betray Him to them." 
Mark14:11 When they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him silver. So he looked for how he might conveniently betray Him." 
Mark14:12 On the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, His disciples said to Him, “Where do You want us to prepare for You to eat the Passover?”" 
Mark14:13 So He sent two of His disciples and said to them, “Go into the city, and a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you there. Follow him." 
Mark14:14 Wherever he enters, say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher says, Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with My disciples?’" 
Mark14:15 He will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. Make preparations for us there.”" 
Mark14:16 His disciples went out, and came into the city, and found it as He had told them. And they prepared the Passover." 
Mark14:17 In the evening He came with the twelve. 
Mark14:18 As they sat and ate, Jesus said, “Truly I say to you, one of you who is eating with Me will betray Me.”" 
Mark14:19 They began to be sorrowful and to say to Him one by one, “Is it I?” and another, “Is it I?”" 
Mark14:20 He said to them, “It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread in the dish with Me." 
Mark14:21 The Son of Man indeed goes as it is written concerning Him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had never been born.”" 
Mark14:22 As they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, “Take and eat it. This is My body.”" 
Mark14:23 Then He took the cup, and when He had given thanks, He gave it to them. And they all drank from it." 
Mark14:24 He said to them, “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many." 
Mark14:25 Truly I say to you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.”" 
Mark14:26 When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives." 
Mark14:27 Jesus said to them, “All of you will fall away on account of Me this night, for it is written: ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’" 
Mark14:28 But after I have risen, I will go before you to Galilee.”" 
Mark14:29 Peter said to Him, “Even if all fall away, I will not.”" 
Mark14:30 Jesus said to him, “Truly, I say to you that this day, during the night, before the cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times.”" 
Mark14:31 But he said more vehemently, “If I must die with You, I will not deny You.” They all said the same thing." 
Mark14:32 They came to a place which was named Gethsemane. And He said to His disciples, “Sit here while I pray.”" 
Mark14:33 He took Peter and James and John with Him and began to be greatly distressed and very troubled. 
Mark14:33 He took Peter and James and John with Him and began to be greatly distressed and very troubled. 
Mark14:33 He took Peter and James and John with Him and began to be greatly distressed and very troubled. 
Mark14:34 And He said to them, “My soul is deeply sorrowful unto death. Remain here and keep watch.”" 
Mark14:35 He went a little farther and fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from Him." 
Mark14:36 He said, “Abba, Father, all things are possible for You. Remove this cup from Me; yet not what I will, but what You will.”" 
Mark14:37 Then He came and found them sleeping and said to Peter, “Simon, are you sleeping? Could you not keep watch one hour?" 
Mark14:38 Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.”" 
Mark14:39 Again He went away and prayed the same words. 
Mark14:40 When He returned, He again found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. And they did not know what to answer Him." 
Mark14:41 When He returned a third time, He said to them, “Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough! The hour has come. Look, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners." 
Mark14:42 Rise up, let us go. Look! He who betrays Me is at hand.”" 
Mark14:43 Immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, came from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders." 
Mark14:44 Now he who betrayed Him had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I kiss, He is the One. Seize Him and lead Him away safely.”" 
Mark14:45 So as soon as he came, he went to Him immediately and said, “Rabbi, Rabbi!” and kissed Him." 
Mark14:46 They laid hands on Him and seized Him. 
Mark14:47 Then one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. 
Mark14:48 Then Jesus said to them, “Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest Me as you would a thief?" 
Mark14:49 Every day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize Me. But the Scriptures must be fulfilled.”" 
Mark14:50 Then they all deserted Him and fled. 
Mark14:51 A young man followed Him, wearing a linen cloth around himself. And the young men laid hold of him," 
Mark14:52 so he left the linen cloth, and fled from them unclothed." 
Mark14:53 They led Jesus away to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes were assembled with him. 
Mark14:54 Peter followed Him at a distance into the courtyard of the high priest. He sat with the guards and warmed himself by the fire. 
Mark14:55 Now the chief priests and the entire Sanhedrin requested testimony against Jesus to put Him to death, but found none." 
Mark14:56 Many bore false witness against Him, but their testimonies did not agree." 
Mark14:57 Then some rose up and bore false witness against Him, saying," 
Mark14:58 “We heard Him say, ‘I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another not made with hands.’ ”" 
Mark14:59 But still their testimony did not agree. 
Mark14:60 Then the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, “Do You answer nothing? What is it which these men testify against You?”" 
Mark14:61 But He kept silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked Him, “Are You the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One?”" 
Mark14:62 Jesus said, “I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.”" 
Mark14:63 The high priest tore his robes, saying, “What need do we have of any further witnesses?" 
Mark14:64 You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think?” They all condemned Him as guilty unto death. 
Mark14:65 Then some began to spit on Him, and to blindfold Him, and to strike Him, saying to Him, “Prophesy!” And the guards struck Him with the palms of their hands." 
Mark14:66 While Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came." 
Mark14:67 When she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, “You also were with Jesus of Nazareth.”" 
Mark14:68 But he denied it, saying, “I neither know nor understand what you are saying.” Then he went out to the porch, and a cock crowed." 
Mark14:69 The servant girl saw him again and began to say to those who stood by, “This man is one of them.”" 
Mark14:70 But again, he denied it. A little while later, those who stood by said again to Peter, “Surely, you are one of them. For you are a Galilean, and your speech confirms it.”" 
Mark14:71 Peter began to invoke a curse on himself, and to swear, “I do not know this Man of whom you speak.”" 
Mark14:72 And the cock crowed a second time. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said to him, “Before the cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times.” And when he thought on this, he wept." 
Mark15:1 Early in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole Sanhedrin. And they bound Jesus and took Him away and handed Him over to Pilate. 
Mark15:2 Pilate asked Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” He answered him, “You have said so.”" 
Mark15:3 The chief priests accused Him of many things, but He answered nothing." 
Mark15:4 So Pilate asked Him again, “Do You answer nothing? See how many things they testify against You.”" 
Mark15:5 But Jesus still answered nothing, so that Pilate was astonished." 
Mark15:6 Now at the feast he always released to them one prisoner, whomever they requested." 
Mark15:7 There was one named Barabbas, who had committed murder in the insurrection and was bound with the rebels." 
Mark15:8 The crowd began crying aloud, asking Pilate to do as he had always done for them." 
Mark15:9 He answered them, “Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?”" 
Mark15:10 For he knew that the chief priests had handed Him over out of envy. 
Mark15:11 But the chief priests stirred the people, so that he should instead release Barabbas to them." 
Mark15:12 Pilate answered them again, “What then would you have me do to Him whom you call the King of the Jews?”" 
Mark15:13 They again cried out, “Crucify Him!”" 
Mark15:14 Pilate said to them, “Why, what evil has He done?” But they cried out even more, “Crucify Him!”" 
Mark15:15 So Pilate, resolving to satisfy the people, released Barabbas to them. And when he had scourged Jesus, he handed Him over to be crucified." 
Mark15:16 The soldiers led Him away to Praetorium Hall, and they called together the entire battalion." 
Mark15:17 They clothed Him with a purple robe. And they wove a crown of thorns and put it on His head," 
Mark15:18 and began to salute Him, “Hail, King of the Jews!”" 
Mark15:19 They struck His head with a staff and spit on Him. And bowing their knees, they bowed to pay homage to Him." 
Mark15:20 When they had mocked Him, they took the purple robe off of Him and put His own garments on Him. Then they led Him out to crucify Him." 
Mark15:21 They compelled a man named Simon from Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was passing through from the country, to bear Jesus’ cross." 
Mark15:22 They brought Him to the place called Golgotha, which means, “Place of a Skull.”" 
Mark15:23 They gave Him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but He did not take it." 
Mark15:24 When they had crucified Him, they divided His garments, casting lots for them, to decide what each man should take." 
Mark15:25 Now it was the third hour, and they crucified Him." 
Mark15:26 The inscription of His accusation was written above: the king of the jews***. 
Mark15:27 With Him they crucified two thieves, one on His right and the other on His left." 
Mark15:28 And the Scripture was fulfilled, which says, “He was numbered with the lawless ones.”" 
Mark15:29 Those who passed by blasphemed Him, shaking their heads and saying, “Aha! You who would destroy the temple and build it in three days," 
Mark15:30 save Yourself, and come down from the cross!”" 
Mark15:31 Likewise the chief priests mocked Him among themselves with the scribes and said, “He saved others, but He cannot save Himself!" 
Mark15:32 Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe.” Those who were crucified with Him also reviled Him." 
Mark15:33 When the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour." 
Mark15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?” which means, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?”" 
Mark15:35 Some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, “Behold, He is calling Elijah!”" 
Mark15:36 One man ran and filled a sponge with vinegar, put it on a stick, and gave it to Him to drink, saying, “Leave Him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to take Him down.”" 
Mark15:37 But Jesus cried with a loud voice and gave up the spirit. 
Mark15:38 And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. 
Mark15:39 When the centurion who stood facing Him saw that He cried out and gave up the spirit, he said, “Truly, this Man was the Son of God.”" 
Mark15:40 There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Less and of Joseph, and Salome." 
Mark15:40 There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Less and of Joseph, and Salome." 
Mark15:41 They also had followed Him and had ministered to Him when He was in Galilee. And many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem were there. 
Mark15:42 When the evening had come, because it was the Day of Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath," 
Mark15:43 Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable member of the Council, who also waited for the kingdom of God, came and went in boldly to Pilate, and requested the body of Jesus." 
Mark15:44 Pilate wondered if He were already dead. And calling for the centurion, he asked him whether He had been dead for a while." 
Mark15:45 When he learned about it from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph." 
Mark15:46 So he bought fine linen, and taking Him down, wrapped Him in the linen and laid Him in a tomb which had been hewn out of the rock. And he rolled a stone against the door of the tomb." 
Mark15:47 Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph saw where He was laid. 
Mark16:1 When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, so that they might go and anoint Him." 
Mark16:1 When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, so that they might go and anoint Him." 
Mark16:2 Very early in the morning, on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb at the rising of the sun." 
Mark16:3 They said among themselves, “Who will roll the stone away from the door of the tomb for us?”" 
Mark16:4 But when they looked, they saw that the stone had been rolled away. For it was very large." 
Mark16:5 And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white robe. And they were frightened." 
Mark16:6 He said to them, “Do not be frightened. You are looking for Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is risen. He is not here. See the place where they laid Him." 
Mark16:7 But go your way, tell His disciples and Peter that He is going before you to Galilee. There you will see Him, as He told you.”" 
Mark16:8 They went out quickly and fled from the tomb, for they trembled and were amazed. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid." 
Mark16:9 Now when Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom He had cast seven demons." 
Mark16:10 She went and told those who had been with Him as they mourned and wept. 
Mark16:11 When they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe it." 
Mark16:12 After that He appeared in another form to two of them as they walked and went into the country. 
Mark16:13 And they went and told it to the rest, but they did not believe them either." 
Mark16:14 Afterward He appeared to the eleven as they sat at supper, and He reprimanded them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen Him after He had risen." 
Mark16:15 He said to them, “Go into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature." 
Mark16:16 He who believes and is baptized will be saved. But he who does not believe will be condemned. 
Mark16:17 These signs will accompany those who believe: In My name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues; 
Mark16:18 they will take up serpents; if they drink any deadly thing, it will not hurt them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover.”" 
Mark16:19 After the Lord had spoken to them, He was received up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God." 
Mark16:20 Then they went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word through the accompanying signs. Amen." 
Luke1:1 Whereas many have undertaken to write a narrative of those things which are most surely believed among us," 
Luke1:2 just as they were handed down to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word," 
Luke1:3 it seemed good to me also, having accurately investigated all things from the very beginning, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus," 
Luke1:4 that you might know the certainty of the things which you have been told. 
Luke1:5 There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth." 
Luke1:5 There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth." 
Luke1:6 They were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blamelessly." 
Luke1:7 But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they both were now well advanced in years." 
Luke1:8 Now while he served as priest before God, when his division was on duty," 
Luke1:9 according to the custom of the priest’s office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord." 
Luke1:10 And the whole crowd of people were praying outside at the hour of incense. 
Luke1:11 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense." 
Luke1:12 When Zechariah saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him." 
Luke1:13 But the angel said to him, “Do not fear, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John." 
Luke1:13 But the angel said to him, “Do not fear, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John." 
Luke1:14 You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth." 
Luke1:15 For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother’s womb." 
Luke1:16 He will turn many of the Israelites to the Lord their God. 
Luke1:17 And he will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.”" 
Luke1:18 Zechariah said to the angel, “How shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife well advanced in years.”" 
Luke1:19 The angel answered him, “I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God. And I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news." 
Luke1:20 And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things happen, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their season.”" 
Luke1:21 The people waited for Zechariah, and wondered why he waited so long in the temple." 
Luke1:22 When he came out, he could not speak to them. They perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he made signs to them and remained speechless." 
Luke1:23 As soon as the days of his service were fulfilled, he departed to his own home." 
Luke1:24 After those days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she hid herself, saying," 
Luke1:25 “Thus the Lord has dealt with me in the days when He looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.”" 
Luke1:26 In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth," 
Luke1:27 to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin’s name was Mary." 
Luke1:28 The angel came to her and said, “Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women.”" 
Luke1:29 When she saw him, she was troubled by his words, and considered in her mind what kind of greeting this might be." 
Luke1:30 But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God." 
Luke1:31 And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a Son and shall call His name Jesus." 
Luke1:32 He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David," 
Luke1:33 and He will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of His kingdom there will be no end.” 
Luke1:34 Then Mary said to the angel, “How can this be, since I do not know a man?”" 
Luke1:35 The angel said to her, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Highest will overshadow you. Therefore the Holy One who will be born will be called the Son of God." 
Luke1:36 And behold, your cousin Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age. And this is the sixth month with her who was declared barren." 
Luke1:37 For with God nothing will be impossible.” 
Luke1:38 Mary said, “Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. May it be unto me according to your word.” Then the angel departed from her." 
Luke1:39 In those days Mary arose and quickly went into the hill country, to a city of Judah," 
Luke1:40 and entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. 
Luke1:41 When Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit." 
Luke1:42 She spoke out with a loud voice, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!" 
Luke1:43 But why is this granted to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" 
Luke1:44 For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy." 
Luke1:45 Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a completion to those things which were told her by the Lord.”" 
Luke1:46 And Mary said: “My soul magnifies the Lord," 
Luke1:47 and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. 
Luke1:48 For He has regarded the low estate of His servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed." 
Luke1:49 For He who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is His name." 
Luke1:50 His mercy is on those who fear Him from generation to generation. 
Luke1:51 He has shown strength with His arm; He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. 
Luke1:52 He has pulled down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of low degree. 
Luke1:53 He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich He has sent away empty." 
Luke1:54 He has helped His servant Israel, in remembrance of His mercy," 
Luke1:55 as He spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his descendants forever.”" 
Luke1:56 Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her own house. 
Luke1:57 Now Elizabeth’s time had come to give birth, and she gave birth to a son." 
Luke1:58 Her neighbors and cousins heard how the Lord had shown her great mercy, and they rejoiced with her." 
Luke1:59 On the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they were calling him Zechariah, after the name of his father." 
Luke1:60 But his mother said, “Not so! He shall be called John.”" 
Luke1:60 But his mother said, “Not so! He shall be called John.”" 
Luke1:61 They said to her, “There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.”" 
Luke1:62 They made signs to his father, asking what he would have him called." 
Luke1:63 He asked for a writing tablet and wrote, “His name is John.” And they all were amazed." 
Luke1:63 He asked for a writing tablet and wrote, “His name is John.” And they all were amazed." 
Luke1:64 Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue was loosed, and he spoke and praised God." 
Luke1:65 Fear came on all who lived around them. And all these facts were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea. 
Luke1:65 Fear came on all who lived around them. And all these facts were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea. 
Luke1:66 All those who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, “What kind of child will he be?” For the hand of the Lord was with him." 
Luke1:67 His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying," 
Luke1:68 “Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for He has visited and redeemed His people," 
Luke1:69 and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of His servant David," 
Luke1:70 as He spoke by the mouth of His holy prophets of long ago," 
Luke1:71 that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us," 
Luke1:72 to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember His holy covenant," 
Luke1:73 the oath which He swore to our father Abraham," 
Luke1:74 to grant us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear," 
Luke1:75 in holiness and righteousness before Him all the days of our lives. 
Luke1:76 “And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Highest; for you will go before the presence of the Lord to prepare His ways," 
Luke1:77 to give knowledge of salvation to His people by the remission of their sins," 
Luke1:78 through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise from on high has visited us;" 
Luke1:79 to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.”" 
Luke1:80 And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he remained in the wilderness until the day of his appearance to Israel." 
Luke2:1 In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that the entire inhabited empire should be taxed. 
Luke2:2 This taxation was first made when Quirinius was governor of Syria. 
Luke2:3 And everyone went to his own city to be taxed. 
Luke2:4 So Joseph also departed from the city of Nazareth in Galilee to the City of David which is called Bethlehem, in Judea, because he was of the house and lineage of David," 
Luke2:4 So Joseph also departed from the city of Nazareth in Galilee to the City of David which is called Bethlehem, in Judea, because he was of the house and lineage of David," 
Luke2:5 to be taxed with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child." 
Luke2:6 So while they were there, the day came for her to give birth." 
Luke2:7 And she gave birth to her firstborn Son, and wrapped Him in strips of cloth, and laid Him in a manger, because there was no space for them in the guest room." 
Luke2:8 And in the same area there were shepherds living in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night." 
Luke2:9 And then an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were very afraid." 
Luke2:10 And the angel said to them, “Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which will be to all people." 
Luke2:11 For unto you is born this day in the City of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord." 
Luke2:12 And this will be a sign to you: You will find the Baby wrapped in strips of cloth, lying in a manger.”" 
Luke2:13 Suddenly there was with the angel a company of the heavenly host praising God and saying," 
Luke2:14 “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, and good will toward men.”" 
Luke2:15 When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to each other, “Let us now go to Bethlehem and see what has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.”" 
Luke2:16 So they came hurrying and found Mary and Joseph, and the Baby lying in a manger." 
Luke2:17 When they had seen Him, they made widely known the word which was told them concerning this Child." 
Luke2:18 And all those who heard it marveled at what the shepherds told them. 
Luke2:19 But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. 
Luke2:20 The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen, as it had been told them." 
Luke2:21 When eight days had passed and the Child was circumcised, He was named Jesus, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb." 
Luke2:22 When the days of her purification according to the Law of Moses were completed, they brought Him to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord" 
Luke2:23 (as it is written in the law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male shall be called holy to the Lord”)" 
Luke2:24 and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, “a pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.”" 
Luke2:25 Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him." 
Luke2:26 It was revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. 
Luke2:27 Led by the Spirit, he came into the temple. And when the parents brought in the Child Jesus, to do for Him according to the custom of the law," 
Luke2:28 he received Him in his arms and blessed God and said: 
Luke2:29 “Lord, now let Your servant depart in peace, according to Your word;" 
Luke2:30 for my eyes have seen Your salvation 
Luke2:31 which You have prepared in the sight of all people," 
Luke2:32 a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of Your people Israel.”" 
Luke2:33 Joseph and His mother were amazed at those things which were spoken about Him. 
Luke2:34 Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother, “Behold, this Child is destined to cause the fall and rising of many in Israel and to be a sign which will be spoken against," 
Luke2:35 so that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And a sword will pierce through your own soul also.” 
Luke2:36 And there was Anna a prophetess, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was of a great age and had lived with her husband seven years from her virginity." 
Luke2:37 And she was a widow of about eighty-four years of age who did not depart from the temple, but served God with fasting and prayer night and day." 
Luke2:38 Coming at that moment she gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of Him to all those who looked for the redemption of Jerusalem. 
Luke2:39 When they had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own city of Nazareth." 
Luke2:40 And the Child grew and became strong in spirit, filled with wisdom. And the grace of God was upon Him." 
Luke2:41 Now His parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover. 
Luke2:42 When He was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast." 
Luke2:43 When the days of the feast were complete, as they returned, the Child Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and His mother did not know of it." 
Luke2:44 But supposing Him to be in their company, they went a day’s journey. Then they searched for Him among their relatives and acquaintances." 
Luke2:45 When they did not find Him, they returned to Jerusalem, searching for Him." 
Luke2:46 After three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions." 
Luke2:47 All who heard Him were astonished at His understanding and His answers. 
Luke2:48 When they saw Him, they were amazed. And His mother said to Him, “Son, why have You treated us this way? Behold, Your father and I have anxiously searched for You.”" 
Luke2:49 He said to them, “How is it that you searched for Me? Did you not know that I must be about My Father’s business?”" 
Luke2:50 But they did not understand the word which He spoke to them. 
Luke2:51 Then He went down with them and came to Nazareth and was obedient to them. But His mother kept all these words in her heart. 
Luke2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and men. 
Luke3:1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Caesar Tiberius, Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, his brother Philip was tetrarch of Iturea and the region of Traconitis, and Lysanias was the tetrarch of Abilene." 
Luke3:1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Caesar Tiberius, Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, his brother Philip was tetrarch of Iturea and the region of Traconitis, and Lysanias was the tetrarch of Abilene." 
Luke3:2 Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness." 
Luke3:2 Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness." 
Luke3:3 He came into the region surrounding the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins." 
Luke3:4 As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, saying: “The voice of one crying in the wilderness: ‘Prepare the way of the Lord; make His paths straight." 
Luke3:5 Every valley shall be filled and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight and the rough ways shall be made smooth; 
Luke3:6 and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.’ ” 
Luke3:7 Then he said to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?" 
Luke3:8 Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ For I say to you that God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham." 
Luke3:9 Even now the axe is put to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.” 
Luke3:10 The people asked him, “What then must we do?”" 
Luke3:11 John answered, “He who has two tunics, let him give to him who has none. And he who has food, let him do likewise.”" 
Luke3:11 John answered, “He who has two tunics, let him give to him who has none. And he who has food, let him do likewise.”" 
Luke3:12 Then tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, “Teacher, what must we do?”" 
Luke3:13 He said to them, “Collect no more than what is appointed you.”" 
Luke3:14 Then the soldiers likewise demanded of him, “And what must we do?” He said to them, “Do no violence to anyone nor accuse any falsely, and be content with your wages.”" 
Luke3:15 As the people were in expectation, and everyone reflected in their hearts upon John, whether he might be the Christ or not," 
Luke3:15 As the people were in expectation, and everyone reflected in their hearts upon John, whether he might be the Christ or not," 
Luke3:16 John answered them all, “I indeed baptize you with water. But One mightier than I is coming, the straps of whose shoes I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire." 
Luke3:16 John answered them all, “I indeed baptize you with water. But One mightier than I is coming, the straps of whose shoes I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire." 
Luke3:17 His winnowing fork is in His hand, and He will thoroughly cleanse His threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into His granary. But He will burn the chaff with unquenchable fire.”" 
Luke3:18 Then he preached many other things in his exhortation to the people. 
Luke3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, being rebuked by him because of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done," 
Luke3:20 added also this above them all: He locked John up in prison. 
Luke3:20 added also this above them all: He locked John up in prison. 
Luke3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened," 
Luke3:22 and the Holy Spirit descended in a bodily form like a dove on Him, and a voice came from heaven which said, “You are My beloved Son. In You I am well pleased.”" 
Luke3:23 Now Jesus Himself began His ministry at about thirty years of age, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, who was the son of Heli," 
Luke3:24 who was the son of Matthat, who was the son of Levi, who was the son of Melchi, who was the son of Jannai, who was the son of Joseph," 
Luke3:25 who was the son of Mattathias, who was the son of Amos, who was the son of Nahum, who was the son of Esli, who was the son of Naggai," 
Luke3:26 who was the son of Maath, who was the son of Mattathias, who was the son of Semein, who was the son of Josech, who was the son of Joda," 
Luke3:27 who was the son of Joanan, who was the son of Rhesa, who was the son of Zerubbabel, who was the son of Shealtiel, who was the son of Neri," 
Luke3:28 who was the son of Melchi, who was the son of Addi, who was the son of Cosam, who was the son of Elmadam, who was the son of Er," 
Luke3:29 who was the son of Joshua, who was the son of Eliezer, who was the son of Jorim, who was the son of Matthat, who was the son of Levi," 
Luke3:30 who was the son of Simeon, who was the son of Judah, who was the son of Joseph, who was the son of Jonan, who was the son of Eliakim," 
Luke3:31 who was the son of Melea, who was the son of Menna, who was the son of Mattatha, who was the son of Nathan, who was the son of David," 
Luke3:32 who was the son of Jesse, who was the son of Obed, who was the son of Boaz, who was the son of Salmon, who was the son of Nahshon," 
Luke3:33 who was the son of Amminadab, who was the son of Ram, who was the son of Hezron, who was the son of Perez, who was the son of Judah," 
Luke3:34 who was the son of Jacob, who was the son of Isaac, who was the son of Abraham, who was the son of Terah, who was the son of Nahor," 
Luke3:35 who was the son of Serug, who was the son of Reu, who was the son of Peleg, who was the son of Eber, who was the son of Shelah," 
Luke3:36 who was the son of Cainan, who was the son of Arphaxad, who was the son of Shem, who was the son of Noah, who was the son of Lamech," 
Luke3:37 who was the son of Methuselah, who was the son of Enoch, who was the son of Jared, who was the son of Mahalalel, who was the son of Cainan," 
Luke3:38 who was the son of Enosh, who was the son of Seth, who was the son of Adam, who was the son of God." 
Luke4:1 Jesus, being filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness," 
Luke4:2 being tempted by the devil for forty days. During those days He ate nothing. And when they were ended, He was hungry." 
Luke4:3 The devil said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.”" 
Luke4:4 Jesus answered him, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.’ ”" 
Luke4:5 The devil, taking Him up onto a high mountain, showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time." 
Luke4:6 And the devil said to Him, “I will give You all this power and their glory, for it has been delivered to me. And I give it to whomever I will." 
Luke4:7 If You, then, will worship me, all will be Yours.”" 
Luke4:8 Jesus answered him, “Get behind Me, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.’ ”" 
Luke4:9 He brought Him to Jerusalem, set Him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down from here." 
Luke4:10 For it is written: ‘He shall give His angels charge concerning you, to preserve you,’" 
Luke4:11 and ‘In their hands they shall hold you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.’ ”" 
Luke4:12 Jesus answered him, “It is said, ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God.’ ”" 
Luke4:13 When the devil had ended all the temptations, he departed from Him until another time." 
Luke4:14 Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. And His fame went throughout the surrounding region. 
Luke4:15 He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by everyone." 
Luke4:16 He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up. And as His custom was, He went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day. And He stood up to read." 
Luke4:17 The scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. When He had unrolled the scroll, He found the place where it was written:" 
Luke4:18 “The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed;" 
Luke4:19 to preach the acceptable year of the Lord.” 
Luke4:20 Then He rolled up the scroll, and He gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of all those who were in the synagogue were fixed on Him." 
Luke4:21 And He began to say to them, “Today this Scripture is fulfilled in your hearing.”" 
Luke4:22 All bore witness to Him, and wondered at the gracious words which came from His mouth. Then they said, “Is this not Joseph’s son?”" 
Luke4:23 He said to them, “You will surely say to Me this proverb, ‘Physician, heal Yourself. Whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in Your country.’ ”" 
Luke4:24 He also said, “Truly, I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country." 
Luke4:25 But I tell you truthfully, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were closed for three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land." 
Luke4:26 Yet to none of them was Elijah sent except to Zarephath, a city of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow." 
Luke4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet. But none of them was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian.” 
Luke4:28 All those in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath." 
Luke4:29 They rose up and thrust Him out of the city and led Him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw Him down headlong." 
Luke4:30 But passing through the midst of them, He went His way." 
Luke4:31 Then He went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and was teaching them on the Sabbaths." 
Luke4:32 They were astonished at His teaching, for His word was with authority." 
Luke4:33 In the synagogue there was a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon. And he cried out with a loud voice," 
Luke4:34 “Leave us alone! What have You to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are—the Holy One of God!”" 
Luke4:35 Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent, and come out of him!” When the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him and did not hurt him." 
Luke4:36 They were all amazed and said among themselves, “What a word this is! For with authority and power He commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.”" 
Luke4:37 And His fame went out to every place in the surrounding countryside. 
Luke4:38 He went out of the synagogue and entered Simon’s house. Now Simon’s mother-in-law was taken ill with a high fever, and they asked Him about her." 
Luke4:39 So He stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. And immediately she rose and served them." 
Luke4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all those who had anyone sick with various diseases brought them to Him. And He laid His hands on every one of them and healed them." 
Luke4:41 And demons came out of many, crying out, “You are the Christ, the Son of God!” But He rebuked them and did not permit them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ." 
Luke4:42 When it was day He departed and went into a remote place. And searching for Him, the people came to Him and tried to prevent Him from leaving them." 
Luke4:43 But He said to them, “I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also, for this is why I was sent.”" 
Luke4:44 And He was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. 
Luke5:1 As the people pressed upon Him to hear the word of God, He stood by the Lake of Gennesaret" 
Luke5:2 and saw two boats beside the lake. But the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. 
Luke5:3 He entered one of the boats, which was Simon’s, and asked him to thrust it out a little from the land. Then He sat down and taught the people from the boat." 
Luke5:4 When He had finished speaking, He said to Simon, “Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch.”" 
Luke5:5 Simon answered Him, “Master, we have worked all night and have caught nothing. But at Your word I will let down the net.”" 
Luke5:6 When they had done this, they caught a great number of fish, and their net was tearing." 
Luke5:7 So they signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, so that they began to sink." 
Luke5:8 When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord.”" 
Luke5:9 For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish which they had taken," 
Luke5:10 and so were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. Then Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear. From now on you will catch men.”" 
Luke5:10 and so were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. Then Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear. From now on you will catch men.”" 
Luke5:10 and so were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. Then Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear. From now on you will catch men.”" 
Luke5:11 So when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed Him." 
Luke5:12 When He was in a certain city, a man full of leprosy, upon seeing Jesus, fell on his face and begged Him, “Lord, if You will, You can make me clean.”" 
Luke5:13 He reached out His hand and touched him, saying, “I will. Be clean.” And immediately the leprosy left him." 
Luke5:14 Then He commanded him to tell no one, “But go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”" 
Luke5:15 Yet even more so His fame went everywhere. And great crowds came together to hear and to be healed by Him of their infirmities. 
Luke5:16 But He withdrew to the wilderness and prayed. 
Luke5:17 On a certain day, as He was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting nearby, who had come from every town of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present to heal the sick." 
Luke5:17 On a certain day, as He was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting nearby, who had come from every town of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present to heal the sick." 
Luke5:18 And behold, some men brought in a bed a man who was paralyzed. They searched for ways to bring him in and lay him before Him." 
Luke5:19 When they could not find a way to bring him in, because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down through the tiles with his bed into their midst before Jesus." 
Luke5:20 When He saw their faith, He said to him, “Man, your sins are forgiven you.”" 
Luke5:21 The scribes and the Pharisees began to question, “Who is He who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?”" 
Luke5:22 When Jesus perceived their thoughts, He answered them, “Why question in your hearts?" 
Luke5:23 Which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise up and walk’?" 
Luke5:24 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,” He said to the paralyzed man, “I say to you, rise, take up your bed, and go to your house.”" 
Luke5:25 Immediately he rose before them, and took up that on which he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God." 
Luke5:26 They were all amazed, and they glorified God and were filled with fear, saying, “We have seen wonderful things today.”" 
Luke5:27 After these things He went out and saw a tax collector, named Levi, sitting at the tax collector’s station. He said to him, “Follow Me.”" 
Luke5:28 And he left everything, rose up, and followed Him." 
Luke5:29 Then Levi made Him a great feast in his house. And there was a group of many tax collectors and others who sat down with them. 
Luke5:30 But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against His disciples, saying, “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?”" 
Luke5:31 Jesus answered them, “Those who are well do not need a physician, but those who are sick." 
Luke5:32 I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”" 
Luke5:33 They said to Him, “Why do the disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees, but Yours eat and drink?”" 
Luke5:33 They said to Him, “Why do the disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees, but Yours eat and drink?”" 
Luke5:34 He said to them, “Can you make the attendants of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them?" 
Luke5:35 But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them. Then in those days they will fast.” 
Luke5:36 He told them a parable also: “No one sews a piece of a new material on an old one. Otherwise the new would tear, for the new piece does not match the old." 
Luke5:37 And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise the new wine will burst the wineskins, and it will be spilled, and the wineskins will be destroyed." 
Luke5:38 But new wine must be put into new wineskins, and both are preserved." 
Luke5:39 And no one, having drunk old wine, immediately desires new. For he says, ‘The old is better.’ ”" 
Luke6:1 On the second Sabbath after the first, He went through the grain fields, and His disciples plucked and ate the heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands." 
Luke6:2 Some of the Pharisees said to them, “Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?”" 
Luke6:3 Jesus answered them, “Have you not read what David did when he and those who were with him were hungry?" 
Luke6:4 He went into the house of God, and took and ate the ritual bread, and also gave it to those who were with him. This was not lawful, but for the priests only to eat.”" 
Luke6:5 Then He said to them, “The Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.”" 
Luke6:6 On another Sabbath, when He entered the synagogue and taught, there was a man whose right hand had withered." 
Luke6:7 The scribes and the Pharisees watched Him to see whether He would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find an accusation against Him." 
Luke6:8 But He knew their thoughts, and He said to the man who had the withered hand, “Rise and stand in front.” So he rose and stood in front." 
Luke6:9 Then Jesus said to them, “I will ask you one thing: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it?”" 
Luke6:10 Then looking around at them all, He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did so, and his hand was restored as whole as the other." 
Luke6:11 But they were filled with madness and discussed with each other what they might do to Jesus. 
Luke6:12 In these days He went out to the mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. 
Luke6:13 When it was day, He called for His disciples, and of them He chose twelve, whom He named apostles:" 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom He named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew," 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom He named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew," 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom He named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew," 
Luke6:15 and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called the Zealot," 
Luke6:15 and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called the Zealot," 
Luke6:15 and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called the Zealot," 
Luke6:16 and Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor." 
Luke6:16 and Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor." 
Luke6:17 He came down with them and stood on a level place with a crowd of His disciples and a great crowd of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and from the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear Him and be healed of their diseases," 
Luke6:17 He came down with them and stood on a level place with a crowd of His disciples and a great crowd of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and from the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear Him and be healed of their diseases," 
Luke6:18 including those who were vexed by unclean spirits. And they were healed. 
Luke6:19 The whole crowd tried to touch Him, for power went out from Him and healed them all." 
Luke6:20 He lifted up His eyes on His disciples, and said: “Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God." 
Luke6:21 Blessed are you who hunger now, for you shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh." 
Luke6:22 Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they separate you from their company and insult you, and cast out your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man." 
Luke6:23 “Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For in like manner their fathers treated the prophets." 
Luke6:24 “But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation." 
Luke6:25 Woe to you who are filled, for you shall hunger. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep." 
Luke6:26 Woe to you, when all men speak well of you, for so their fathers spoke of the false prophets." 
Luke6:27 “But I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you," 
Luke6:28 bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you." 
Luke6:29 To him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer also the other. And from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic as well." 
Luke6:30 Give to everyone who asks of you. And of him who takes away your goods, do not ask for them back." 
Luke6:31 Do unto others as you would have others do unto you. 
Luke6:32 “For if you love those who love you, what thanks do you receive? For even sinners love those who love them." 
Luke6:33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what thanks do you receive? For even sinners do the same." 
Luke6:34 And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what thanks do you receive? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive as much in return." 
Luke6:35 But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing in return. Then your reward will be great, and you will be the sons of the Highest. For He is kind to the unthankful and the evil." 
Luke6:36 Be therefore merciful, even as your Father is merciful." 
Luke6:37 “Judge not, and you shall not be judged. Condemn not, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you shall be forgiven." 
Luke6:38 Give, and it will be given to you: Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over will men give unto you. For with the measure you use, it will be measured unto you.”" 
Luke6:39 He spoke a parable to them: “Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into the ditch? 
Luke6:40 The disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who is trained will be like his teacher." 
Luke6:41 “Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not see the beam that is in your own eye?" 
Luke6:42 How can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, let me remove the speck that is in your eye,’ when you yourself do not see the beam that is in your own eye? You hypocrite! First remove the beam from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother’s eye." 
Luke6:43 “A good tree does not bear corrupt fruit, nor does a corrupt tree bear good fruit." 
Luke6:44 Each tree is known by its own fruit. Men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a wild bush." 
Luke6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bears what is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bears what is evil. For of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks." 
Luke6:46 “Why do you call Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and not do what I say?" 
Luke6:47 Whoever comes to Me and hears My words and does them, I will show whom he is like:" 
Luke6:48 He is like a man who built a house, and dug deep, and laid the foundation on rock. When the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently against that house, but could not shake it, for it was founded on rock." 
Luke6:49 But he who hears and does not obey is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation, against which the stream beat vehemently. Immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great.”" 
Luke7:1 When He had completed all His words in the hearing of the people, He entered Capernaum." 
Luke7:2 Now a centurion’s servant, who was dear to him, was sick and ready to die." 
Luke7:3 When he heard of Jesus, he sent the elders of the Jews to Him, asking Him to come and heal his servant." 
Luke7:4 When they came to Jesus, they asked Him earnestly, saying, “You should do this for him for he is worthy," 
Luke7:5 for he loves our nation, and he has built us a synagogue.”" 
Luke7:6 So Jesus went with them. When He was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to Him, saying, “Lord, do not trouble Yourself, for I am not worthy to have You come under my roof." 
Luke7:7 Likewise, I did not think myself worthy to come to You. But say the word, and my servant will be healed." 
Luke7:8 For I myself am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me. I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes, and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”" 
Luke7:9 When Jesus heard these words, He marveled at him, and turned and said to the people who followed Him, “I tell you, I have not found such great faith even in Israel.”" 
Luke7:10 Then those who were sent, returning to the house, found the servant well who had been sick." 
Luke7:11 The following day He went into a city called Nain, and many of His disciples and a large crowd went with Him." 
Luke7:12 When He came near the gate of the city, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the city was with her." 
Luke7:13 When the Lord saw her, He had compassion on her and said to her, “Do not weep.”" 
Luke7:14 Then He came and touched the coffin, and those who carried it stood still. He said, “Young man, I say to you, arise.”" 
Luke7:15 He who was dead sat up and began to speak. And He gave him to his mother. 
Luke7:16 Fear came on everyone. And they glorified God, saying, “A great prophet has risen up among us!” and “God has visited His people!”" 
Luke7:17 This rumor of Him went throughout all Judea and the surrounding region. 
Luke7:17 This rumor of Him went throughout all Judea and the surrounding region. 
Luke7:18 The disciples of John told him of all these things. 
Luke7:18 The disciples of John told him of all these things. 
Luke7:19 John, calling for two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are You the One who is coming, or shall we look for another?”" 
Luke7:19 John, calling for two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are You the One who is coming, or shall we look for another?”" 
Luke7:20 When the men had come to Him, they said, “John the Baptist has sent us to You, saying, ‘Are You the One who is coming, or shall we look for another?’ ”" 
Luke7:20 When the men had come to Him, they said, “John the Baptist has sent us to You, saying, ‘Are You the One who is coming, or shall we look for another?’ ”" 
Luke7:21 In that same hour He cured many of their infirmities and afflictions and evil spirits. And to many who were blind He gave sight. 
Luke7:22 So Jesus answered them, “Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the gospel is preached to the poor." 
Luke7:22 So Jesus answered them, “Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the gospel is preached to the poor." 
Luke7:23 Blessed is he who does not fall away on account of Me.” 
Luke7:24 When the messengers of John had departed, He began to speak to the crowd concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Luke7:24 When the messengers of John had departed, He began to speak to the crowd concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Luke7:25 What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? Behold, those who are splendidly clothed and live luxuriously are in royal palaces." 
Luke7:26 What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet." 
Luke7:27 This is he of whom it is written: ‘Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who shall prepare Your way before You.’" 
Luke7:28 I say to you, among those who are born of women there is no greater prophet than John the Baptist. Yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”" 
Luke7:28 I say to you, among those who are born of women there is no greater prophet than John the Baptist. Yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”" 
Luke7:29 All the people who heard Him, including the tax collectors, acknowledged God as righteous, having been baptized with the baptism of John." 
Luke7:29 All the people who heard Him, including the tax collectors, acknowledged God as righteous, having been baptized with the baptism of John." 
Luke7:30 But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God for themselves, not having been baptized by John." 
Luke7:30 But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God for themselves, not having been baptized by John." 
Luke7:31 Then the Lord said, “To what then shall I compare the men of this generation, and what are they like?" 
Luke7:32 They are like children sitting in the marketplace, calling to each other, saying: ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we mourned to you, and you did not weep.’" 
Luke7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine. But you say, ‘He has a demon.’" 
Luke7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine. But you say, ‘He has a demon.’" 
Luke7:34 The Son of Man has come eating and drinking. But you say, ‘Look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’" 
Luke7:35 But wisdom is acknowledged as righteous by all her children.” 
Luke7:36 One of the Pharisees asked Him to eat with him. So He went to the Pharisee’s house and sat down for supper. 
Luke7:37 And behold, a woman in the city, who was a sinner, having learned that Jesus was eating in the Pharisee’s house, brought an alabaster jar of ointment," 
Luke7:38 and stood behind Him at His feet, weeping, and began to wash His feet with tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed His feet, and anointed them with the ointment." 
Luke7:39 Now when the Pharisee who had invited Him saw it, he said to himself, “If this Man were a prophet, He would have known who and what kind of woman she is who is touching Him, for she is a sinner.”" 
Luke7:40 Jesus answered him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” He said, “Teacher, say it.”" 
Luke7:41 “A creditor had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty." 
Luke7:42 When they had no money to pay, he freely forgave them both. Tell Me, therefore, which of them will love him more?”" 
Luke7:43 Simon answered, “I suppose he whom he forgave more.” He said to him, “You have judged rightly.”" 
Luke7:44 Then He turned to the woman and said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave Me no water for My feet, but she has washed My feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head." 
Luke7:45 You gave Me no kiss, but this woman, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss My feet." 
Luke7:46 You did not anoint My head with oil, but this woman has anointed My feet with ointment." 
Luke7:47 Therefore I say to you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little.”" 
Luke7:48 Then He said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”" 
Luke7:49 Those who sat at supper with Him began to say to themselves, “Who is He who even forgives sins?”" 
Luke7:50 He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.”" 
Luke8:1 Afterward, He went throughout every city and village, preaching and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. With Him were the twelve" 
Luke8:2 and some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had come out," 
Luke8:3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many others, who supported Him with their possessions." 
Luke8:4 When a large crowd had gathered together and people were coming to Him from every city, He told this parable:" 
Luke8:5 “A sower went out to sow his seed. As he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled down, and the birds of the air devoured it." 
Luke8:6 Some fell on a rock. And as soon as it sprang up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture." 
Luke8:7 Yet some fell among thorns. And the thorns sprang up with it and choked it. 
Luke8:8 And other seed fell on good ground and sprang up and yielded a hundred times the amount sown.” When He had said these things, He cried out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Luke8:9 His disciples asked Him, “What might this parable mean?”" 
Luke8:10 He said, “To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but to others they are in parables, so that ‘seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.’" 
Luke8:11 “Now the parable means this: The seed is the word of God. 
Luke8:12 Those along the path are those who hear. Then comes the devil, who takes away the word from their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved." 
Luke8:13 Those on the rock are the ones who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have no root, for they believe for a while, then in the time of temptation fall away." 
Luke8:14 That which fell among thorns are those who, when they have heard, go out and are choked with the cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to maturity." 
Luke8:15 But the seed on the good ground are those who, having heard the word, keep it in an honest and good heart and bear fruit with patience." 
Luke8:16 “No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed, but sets it on a lampstand, that those who enter may see the light." 
Luke8:17 For nothing is secret that will not be revealed, nor anything hidden that will not be known and revealed." 
Luke8:18 Take heed therefore how you hear. For whoever has, to him will be given. And whoever has not, from him will be taken even what he thinks he has.”" 
Luke8:19 Then His mother and His brothers came to Him, but could not reach Him, because of the crowd." 
Luke8:20 Someone told Him, “Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see You.”" 
Luke8:21 But He said to them, “My mother and My brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”" 
Luke8:22 One day He went into a boat with His disciples, and He said to them, “Let us go over to the other side of the lake.” So they launched out." 
Luke8:23 As they sailed, He fell asleep. Then a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in danger." 
Luke8:24 They came to Him and awoke Him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” Then He arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water. And they ceased, and there was a calm." 
Luke8:25 He said to them, “Where is your faith?” Being afraid, they marveled, saying to each other, “Who then is this Man? He commands even the winds and water, and they obey Him.”" 
Luke8:26 They sailed to the country of the Gadarenes, which is across from Galilee." 
Luke8:27 When He stepped out on land, a man from the city who had demons for a long time met Him. He wore no clothes, nor did he live in a house but in the tombs." 
Luke8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before Him, and with a loud voice said, “What have You to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I plead with You, do not torment me.”" 
Luke8:29 For He had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. It often had seized him, and he was kept under guard, bound with chains and shackles. But he broke the shackles and was driven by the demon into the wilderness." 
Luke8:30 Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” He said, “Legion,” because many demons had entered him." 
Luke8:31 And they begged Him not to command them to go out into the abyss. 
Luke8:32 There was a large herd of swine feeding on the mountain. They begged Him to permit them to enter them, and He permitted them." 
Luke8:33 Then the demons went out of the man and entered the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned." 
Luke8:34 When those who fed them saw what had happened, they fled and reported it in the city and in the country." 
Luke8:35 Then they went out to see what had happened, and came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had departed sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind. And they were afraid." 
Luke8:36 Those who had seen it told them how he who had been possessed by demons was healed. 
Luke8:37 Then the whole crowd from the surrounding country of the Gadarenes asked Him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. So He went into the boat and returned." 
Luke8:38 Now the man from whom the demons had departed asked Him if he could stay with Him. But Jesus sent him away, saying," 
Luke8:39 “Return to your own house, and tell what great things God has done for you.” So he went his way and proclaimed throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him." 
Luke8:40 When Jesus returned, the crowd gladly received Him, for they were all waiting for Him." 
Luke8:41 Then a man named Jairus, who was a ruler of the synagogue, came and fell down at Jesus’ feet, and begged Him to come to his house," 
Luke8:42 for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. As He went, the people crowded Him." 
Luke8:43 And a woman having a hemorrhage for twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians, but could not be healed by anyone," 
Luke8:44 came behind Him, and touched the fringe of His garment. And immediately her hemorrhage dried up." 
Luke8:45 Jesus said, “Who touched Me?” When everyone denied it, Peter and those who were with Him said, “Master, the crowds are pressing against You, and You say, ‘Who touched Me?’  ”" 
Luke8:46 But Jesus said, “Someone touched Me, for I perceive that power has gone out from Me.”" 
Luke8:47 When the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling. And falling down before Him, she declared to Him before all the people why she had touched Him and how she was healed immediately." 
Luke8:48 Then He said to her, “Daughter, be of good cheer. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace.”" 
Luke8:49 While He was still speaking, someone from the synagogue ruler’s house came, saying to Jairus, “Your daughter is dead. Do not trouble the Teacher.”" 
Luke8:50 But when Jesus heard it, He answered him, “Do not fear. Only believe, and she will be made well.”" 
Luke8:51 When He came into the house, He permitted no one to go in except Peter, John and James, and the father and mother of the girl." 
Luke8:51 When He came into the house, He permitted no one to go in except Peter, John and James, and the father and mother of the girl." 
Luke8:51 When He came into the house, He permitted no one to go in except Peter, John and James, and the father and mother of the girl." 
Luke8:52 All wept and mourned for her. But He said, “Do not weep. She is not dead but sleeping.”" 
Luke8:53 They laughed at Him, knowing that she was dead." 
Luke8:54 But He put them all outside and took her by the hand and called, saying, “Little girl, arise.”" 
Luke8:55 Her spirit returned, and she arose immediately. And He told them to give her food." 
Luke8:56 Her parents were astonished, but He commanded them to tell no one what had happened." 
Luke9:1 Then He called His twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. 
Luke9:2 And He sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 
Luke9:3 He said to them, “Take nothing for your journey: no staff, no bag, no bread, no money. And do not take two tunics apiece." 
Luke9:4 Whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart." 
Luke9:5 Whoever will not receive you, when you go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet as a testimony against them.”" 
Luke9:6 So they departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere." 
Luke9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by Him. And he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead," 
Luke9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by Him. And he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead," 
Luke9:8 and by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the old prophets had risen." 
Luke9:9 But Herod said, “I have beheaded John. But who is this of whom I hear such things?” And he tried to see Him." 
Luke9:9 But Herod said, “I have beheaded John. But who is this of whom I hear such things?” And he tried to see Him." 
Luke9:10 When the apostles returned, they told Jesus all that they had done. Then He took them and went aside privately into a deserted place belonging to the city called Bethsaida." 
Luke9:11 But when the crowds knew it, they followed Him. And He welcomed them and spoke to them about the kingdom of God, and healed those who had need of healing." 
Luke9:12 When the day began to end, the twelve came and said to Him, “Send the crowds away, so they can go into the towns and surrounding countryside and lodge and get food. For we are in a deserted place here.”" 
Luke9:13 He said to them, “You give them something to eat.” They said, “We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people.”" 
Luke9:14 There were about five thousand men. But He said to His disciples, “Make them sit down in groups of fifty.”" 
Luke9:15 They did so, and made them all sit down." 
Luke9:16 Then He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed them, and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd." 
Luke9:17 They all ate and were filled, and twelve baskets of broken pieces that remained were collected." 
Luke9:18 As He was alone praying, His disciples were with Him. And He asked them, “Who do the people say that I am?”" 
Luke9:19 They answered, “John the Baptist. But some say Elijah. And others say that one of the old prophets has risen.”" 
Luke9:19 They answered, “John the Baptist. But some say Elijah. And others say that one of the old prophets has risen.”" 
Luke9:20 He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered, “The Christ of God.”" 
Luke9:21 Jesus strictly commanded them to tell no one of this," 
Luke9:22 saying, “The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day.”" 
Luke9:23 Then He said to them all, “If anyone will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow Me." 
Luke9:24 For whoever will save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake will save it." 
Luke9:25 For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world, yet loses or forfeits himself?" 
Luke9:26 For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when He comes in His own glory and in the glory of His Father and of the holy angels." 
Luke9:27 “But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who shall not taste death before they see the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke9:28 About eight days after these sayings, He took Peter and John and James and went up onto a mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 About eight days after these sayings, He took Peter and John and James and went up onto a mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 About eight days after these sayings, He took Peter and John and James and went up onto a mountain to pray." 
Luke9:29 As He prayed, the appearance of His countenance was altered, and His clothing was white and glistening." 
Luke9:30 And behold, two men were talking with Him, who were Moses and Elijah," 
Luke9:31 who appeared in glory and spoke of His departure which He was to accomplish in Jerusalem. 
Luke9:32 Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep. But waking thoroughly, they saw His glory and the two men who stood with Him." 
Luke9:33 As they departed from Him, Peter said to Jesus, “Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three sanctuaries: one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah,” not knowing what he said." 
Luke9:34 While he was speaking, a cloud came and overshadowed them. And they were afraid as they entered the cloud." 
Luke9:35 Then a voice came from the cloud, saying, “This is My beloved Son. Listen to Him.”" 
Luke9:36 When the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. They kept silent and told no one in those days anything they had seen." 
Luke9:37 The next day, when they came down from the mountain, a great crowd met Him." 
Luke9:38 And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, saying, “Teacher, I beg You, look upon my son, for he is my only child." 
Luke9:39 And behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out. It convulses him until he foams at the mouth, and bruises him, and scarcely leaves him." 
Luke9:40 I begged Your disciples to cast it out, but they could not.”" 
Luke9:41 Jesus said, “O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.”" 
Luke9:42 While he was coming, the demon threw him down and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and returned him to his father." 
Luke9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while everyone marveled at all the things Jesus did, He said to His disciples," 
Luke9:44 “Let these words sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men.”" 
Luke9:45 But they did not understand this statement, and it was hidden from them, so that they did not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask Him about this statement." 
Luke9:46 A dispute arose among them as to which of them was the greatest. 
Luke9:47 Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child and put him by Him," 
Luke9:48 and said to them, “Whoever receives this child in My name receives Me, and whoever receives Me receives Him who sent Me. For he who is least among you all will be great.”" 
Luke9:49 John answered, “Master, we saw a man casting out demons in Your name and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us.”" 
Luke9:49 John answered, “Master, we saw a man casting out demons in Your name and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us.”" 
Luke9:50 Jesus said, “Do not forbid him, for he who is not against you is for you.”" 
Luke9:51 When the time came for Him to be received up, He was steadfastly set to go to Jerusalem," 
Luke9:52 and sent messengers ahead of Him. They went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make things ready for Him," 
Luke9:53 but they did not receive Him, because He was set to go to Jerusalem." 
Luke9:54 When His disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elijah did?”" 
Luke9:54 When His disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elijah did?”" 
Luke9:54 When His disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elijah did?”" 
Luke9:55 But He turned and rebuked them and said, “You do not know what kind of spirit you are of." 
Luke9:56 For the Son of Man did not come to destroy men’s lives but to save them.” And they went to another village. 
Luke9:57 As they went along the way, a man said to Him, “Lord, I will follow You wherever You go.”" 
Luke9:58 Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man has no place to lay His head.”" 
Luke9:59 He said to another man, “Follow Me.” But he said, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.”" 
Luke9:60 Jesus said to him, “Leave the dead to bury their own dead. But you go and preach the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke9:61 Yet another said, “Lord, I will follow You, but let me first go bid farewell to those at my house.”" 
Luke9:62 Jesus said to him, “No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back at things is fit for the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke10:1 After this the Lord appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two ahead of Him into every city and place where He Himself was about to come." 
Luke10:2 He said to them, “The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest." 
Luke10:3 Go your way. Behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves." 
Luke10:4 Carry no bag, no pouch, no shoes, and greet no one on the road." 
Luke10:5 “When you enter a house, first say, ‘Peace be to this house.’" 
Luke10:6 If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him; but if not, it will return upon you." 
Luke10:7 Remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they give, for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Do not go from house to house." 
Luke10:8 “When you enter a city and they receive you, eat what is set before you." 
Luke10:9 Heal the sick who are there and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.’" 
Luke10:10 But when you enter a city and they do not receive you, go your way out into their streets and say," 
Luke10:11 ‘Even the dust of your city which clings to us, we wipe off against you. Yet be sure of this, that the kingdom of God has come near to you.’" 
Luke10:12 But I say to you, it will be more tolerable on that Day for Sodom than for that city." 
Luke10:13 “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which have been done for you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes." 
Luke10:14 But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you. 
Luke10:15 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be thrust down to Hades." 
Luke10:16 “He who listens to you listens to Me, he who rejects you rejects Me, and he who rejects Me rejects Him who sent Me.”" 
Luke10:17 The seventy returned with joy, saying, “Lord, even the demons are subject to us through Your name.”" 
Luke10:18 He said to them, “I saw Satan as lightning fall from heaven." 
Luke10:19 Behold, I give you authority to trample on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. And nothing shall by any means hurt you." 
Luke10:20 Nevertheless do not rejoice that the spirits are subject to you, but rather rejoice that your names are written in heaven.”" 
Luke10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, “I thank You, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for it was Your good pleasure." 
Luke10:22 “All things have been handed over to Me by My Father. And no one knows who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son and he to whom the Son desires to reveal Him.”" 
Luke10:23 Then He turned to His disciples and said privately, “Blessed are the eyes which see what you see." 
Luke10:24 For I tell you, many prophets and kings have desired to see what you see, and have not seen it, and to hear what you hear, and have not heard it.”" 
Luke10:25 And behold, a lawyer stood up and tested Him, saying, “Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”" 
Luke10:26 He said to him, “What is written in the law? How do you read?”" 
Luke10:27 He answered, “ ‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind’ and ‘your neighbor as yourself.’ ”" 
Luke10:28 He said to him, “You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live.”" 
Luke10:29 But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”" 
Luke10:30 Jesus answered, “A man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, who stripped him of his clothing and wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead." 
Luke10:31 Now by chance, a priest came down that road. And when he saw him, he passed by on the other side." 
Luke10:32 So likewise a Levite, when he came to that place, looked at him and passed by on the other side." 
Luke10:33 But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was. And when he saw him, he had compassion on him," 
Luke10:34 and went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine. Then he set him on his own donkey and brought him to an inn, and took care of him." 
Luke10:35 The next day when he departed, he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper and said to him, ‘Take care of him. I will repay you whatever else you spend when I return.’" 
Luke10:36 “Now which of these three do you think was a neighbor to him who fell among the thieves?” 
Luke10:37 He said, “The one who showed mercy on him.” Then Jesus said to him, “Go and do likewise.”" 
Luke10:38 As they went, He entered a village. And a woman named Martha welcomed Him into her house." 
Luke10:39 She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet and listened to His teaching." 
Luke10:40 But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she came to Him and said, “Lord, do You not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Then tell her to help me.”" 
Luke10:41 But Jesus answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things." 
Luke10:42 But one thing is needed. And Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken from her.”" 
Luke11:1 He was praying in a certain place, and when He ceased, one of His disciples said to Him, “Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.”" 
Luke11:1 He was praying in a certain place, and when He ceased, one of His disciples said to Him, “Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.”" 
Luke11:2 He said to them, “When you pray, say: Our Father, who is in heaven, hallowed be Your name. Your kingdom come; Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." 
Luke11:3 Give us each day our daily bread. 
Luke11:4 And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.”" 
Luke11:5 Then He said to them, “Which of you has a friend and shall go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves," 
Luke11:6 for a friend of mine on his journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him’;" 
Luke11:7 and he will answer from within, ‘Do not trouble me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give you anything’?" 
Luke11:8 I say to you, though he will not rise and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence he will rise and give him as much as he needs." 
Luke11:9 “And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you." 
Luke11:10 For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened." 
Luke11:11 “If a son asks for bread from any of you who is a father, will you give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will you give him a serpent instead of a fish?" 
Luke11:12 Or if he asks for an egg, will you offer him a scorpion?" 
Luke11:13 If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him?”" 
Luke11:14 He was casting out a demon, and it was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the crowd marveled." 
Luke11:15 But some of them said, “He casts out demons through Beelzebub, the ruler of the demons.”" 
Luke11:16 Others, testing Him, asked Him for a sign from heaven." 
Luke11:17 But He, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is made desolate. And a house divided against itself falls." 
Luke11:18 If Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons through Beelzebub." 
Luke11:19 Now if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges." 
Luke11:20 But if I cast out demons with the finger of God, no doubt the kingdom of God has come upon you." 
Luke11:21 “When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are peacefully kept." 
Luke11:22 But when a stronger man than he attacks and overpowers him, he seizes all the armor in which the man trusted and divides his spoils." 
Luke11:23 “He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters." 
Luke11:24 “When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, it goes through dry places seeking rest. Finding none, it says, ‘I will return to my house, from which I came.’" 
Luke11:25 When it comes, it finds it swept and furnished." 
Luke11:26 Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that man is worse than the first.”" 
Luke11:27 As He spoke these things, a woman from the crowd raised her voice and said to Him, “Blessed is the woman who gave You birth and nursed You.”" 
Luke11:28 But He said, “More than that, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it.”" 
Luke11:29 When the crowds pressed upon Him, He began to say, “This is an evil generation. It looks for a sign, but no sign will be given it except the sign of Jonah the prophet." 
Luke11:30 For as Jonah was a sign to the Ninevites, so will the Son of Man be to this generation." 
Luke11:31 The Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, One greater than Solomon is here." 
Luke11:32 The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here." 
Luke11:33 “No one, when he has lit a lamp, puts it in a secret place or under a basket, but on a lampstand, that those who come in may see the light." 
Luke11:34 The eye is the lamp of the body. Therefore when your eye is good, your whole body also is full of light. But when your eye is bad, your body also is full of darkness." 
Luke11:35 Take heed therefore lest the light which is in you is darkness. 
Luke11:36 If your whole body, then, is full of light, no part being dark, the whole body will be full of light, as when the bright shining of a lamp gives you light.”" 
Luke11:37 As He spoke, a Pharisee asked Him to dine with him. So He went in and sat down to eat." 
Luke11:38 When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that He had not first washed before dinner." 
Luke11:39 Then the Lord said to him, “Now you Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and the dish. But inside you are full of extortion and wickedness." 
Luke11:40 You fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? 
Luke11:41 But give alms from what is within, and behold, all things are clean to you." 
Luke11:42 “Woe to you, Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb and pass over justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done, without leaving the others undone." 
Luke11:43 “Woe to you, Pharisees! For you love the prominent seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces." 
Luke11:44 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like unseen graves, and the men who walk over them are not aware of them.”" 
Luke11:45 One of the lawyers answered Him, “Teacher, by saying these things You insult us also.”" 
Luke11:46 He said, “Woe to you also, you lawyers! For you load men with burdens difficult to carry, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers." 
Luke11:47 “Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them." 
Luke11:48 So you are witnesses and entirely approve the deeds of your fathers, because they killed them, and you build their tombs." 
Luke11:49 Therefore also the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill and persecute,’" 
Luke11:50 that the blood of all the prophets, shed since the beginning of the world, may be required from this generation," 
Luke11:51 from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it shall be required from this generation." 
Luke11:52 “Woe to you, lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering.”" 
Luke11:53 As He said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to incite Him vehemently and angrily draw Him out concerning many things," 
Luke11:54 lying in wait for Him and seeking to catch something out of His mouth, that they might accuse Him." 
Luke12:1 Meanwhile, when thousands of the crowd were assembled, so as to trample on one another, He began to say to His disciples first, “Beware of the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy." 
Luke12:2 For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known." 
Luke12:3 Therefore what you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light. And what you have whispered in the ear in private rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops. 
Luke12:4 “I say to you, My friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that can do no more." 
Luke12:5 But I will warn you whom you shall fear: Fear Him who, after He has killed, has power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear Him." 
Luke12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? Yet not one of them is forgotten by God. 
Luke12:7 Indeed, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Therefore do not fear. You are more valuable than many sparrows." 
Luke12:8 “I say to you, whoever confesses Me before men, him will the Son of Man also confess before the angels of God." 
Luke12:9 But he who denies Me before men will be denied before the angels of God. 
Luke12:10 And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven." 
Luke12:11 “When they bring you to the synagogues, rulers, and authorities, do not be anxious how you will answer or what you will say." 
Luke12:12 For the Holy Spirit will teach you at that time what you should say.” 
Luke12:13 Someone in the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”" 
Luke12:14 Jesus said to him, “Man, who appointed Me a judge or an arbitrator between you?”" 
Luke12:15 Then He said to them, “Take heed and beware of covetousness. For a man’s life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.”" 
Luke12:16 And He told a parable to them, saying, “The land of a rich man produced plentifully." 
Luke12:17 He thought to himself, ‘What shall I do, for I have no room to store my crops?’" 
Luke12:18 “Then he said, ‘This I will do: I will pull down my barns and build greater ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods." 
Luke12:19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take rest. Eat, drink, and be merry.’" 
Luke12:20 “But God said to him, ‘You fool! This night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided?’" 
Luke12:21 “So is he who stores up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.”" 
Luke12:22 Then He said to His disciples, “Therefore I say to you, do not be anxious for your life, what you will eat, nor for your body, what you will wear." 
Luke12:23 Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothes." 
Luke12:24 Consider the ravens: They neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouses nor barns. Yet God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than birds?" 
Luke12:25 Who of you by worrying can add one cubit to his height? 
Luke12:26 If you then cannot do what is least, why are you anxious about the other things?" 
Luke12:27 “Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither spin nor weave. Yet I say to you that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these." 
Luke12:28 If God so clothes the grass, which today is in the field and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will He clothe you, O you of little faith?" 
Luke12:29 And do not seek what you will eat or what you will drink, nor be of an anxious mind." 
Luke12:30 For the nations of the world seek all these things, and your Father knows that you need them." 
Luke12:31 But seek the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be given to you." 
Luke12:32 “Do not be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the kingdom." 
Luke12:33 Sell your possessions and give alms. Provide yourselves bags that do not grow old, an unfailing treasure in the heavens, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys." 
Luke12:34 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." 
Luke12:35 “Let your waist be girded and your lights be burning," 
Luke12:36 and you be like men waiting for their master to return from the wedding banquet, so that they may open the door immediately for him when he comes and knocks." 
Luke12:37 Blessed are those servants whom the master will find watching when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will dress himself and have them sit down to dine, and he will come and serve them." 
Luke12:38 If he comes in the second watch, or comes in the third watch, and finds them so, blessed are those servants." 
Luke12:39 But know this: If the owner of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched and not have allowed his house to be broken into." 
Luke12:40 Therefore be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.”" 
Luke12:41 Peter said to Him, “Lord, are You telling this parable to us, or to everyone?”" 
Luke12:42 The Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his master will make ruler over his house servants, to give them their portion of food at the proper time?" 
Luke12:43 Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. 
Luke12:44 Truly, I say to you, he will appoint him over all his possessions." 
Luke12:45 But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My master delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the house servants, both men and women, and to eat and drink and get drunk," 
Luke12:46 the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not look for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him to pieces and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers." 
Luke12:47 “That servant who knew his master’s will, but did not prepare himself or do according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes." 
Luke12:48 But he who unknowingly committed acts worthy of punishment shall be beaten with few stripes. For to whom much is given, of him much shall be required. And from him to whom much was entrusted, much will be asked." 
Luke12:49 “I have come to send fire upon the earth and wish that it were already kindled! 
Luke12:50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how pressed I am until it is accomplished!" 
Luke12:51 Do you suppose that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division." 
Luke12:52 For there will be from now on five divided in one house, three against two and two against three." 
Luke12:53 They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, and mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.”" 
Luke12:54 Then He said to the crowd: “When you see a cloud rise out of the west, immediately you say, ‘A shower is coming,’ and so it is." 
Luke12:55 And when a south wind blows, you say, ‘There will be heat,’ and it happens." 
Luke12:56 You hypocrites! You can discern the appearance of the sky and of the earth. But why do you not know how to discern this time? 
Luke12:57 “Why even among yourselves do you not judge what is right? 
Luke12:58 When you go with your adversary to the magistrate, as you are on the way, diligently try to settle matters with him, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge will hand you over to the officer, and the officer will throw you into prison." 
Luke12:59 I tell you, you shall not come out from there until you have paid the very last penny.”" 
Luke13:1 There were present at that time some who told Him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. 
Luke13:2 Jesus answered, “Do you suppose that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered such things?" 
Luke13:3 I tell you, no! But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish." 
Luke13:4 Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, do you think that they were worse offenders than all men living in Jerusalem?" 
Luke13:5 I tell you, no! But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.”" 
Luke13:6 Then He told this parable: “A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. He came and looked for fruit on it and found none. 
Luke13:7 So he said to the vinedresser of his vineyard, ‘Now these three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it deplete the soil?’" 
Luke13:8 “He answered him, ‘Sir, leave it alone this year also, until I dig around it and fertilize it." 
Luke13:9 And if it bears fruit, well. But if not, after that you shall cut it down.’ ”" 
Luke13:10 He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. 
Luke13:11 And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years and was bent over and could not straighten herself up." 
Luke13:12 When Jesus saw her, He called her and said to her, “Woman, you are loosed from your infirmity.”" 
Luke13:13 Then He laid His hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God." 
Luke13:14 But the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, and said to the people, “There are six days in which men ought to work. Therefore come and be healed on those days, but not on the Sabbath day.”" 
Luke13:15 The Lord then answered him and said, “You hypocrite! Does not each one of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the stall and lead it away to water it?" 
Luke13:16 Then should not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham whom Satan has bound these eighteen years, be loosed from this bondage on the Sabbath?”" 
Luke13:17 When He said this, all His adversaries were ashamed. And all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by Him." 
Luke13:18 Then He said, “What is the kingdom of God like? To what shall I compare it?" 
Luke13:19 It is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took and planted in his garden. It grew and became a large tree, and the birds of the air nested in its branches.”" 
Luke13:20 Again He said, “To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?" 
Luke13:21 It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in sixty pounds of meal until all of it was leavened.”" 
Luke13:22 Then He went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem." 
Luke13:23 Someone said to Him, “Lord, will those who are saved be few?” He said to them," 
Luke13:24 “Strive to enter through the narrow gate. For many, I tell you, will try to enter and will not be able." 
Luke13:25 Once the Master of the house has risen up and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open for us,’ He will answer you, ‘I do not know where you come from.’" 
Luke13:26 “Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in Your presence, and You taught in our streets.’" 
Luke13:27 “But He will say, ‘I tell you, I do not know you, or where you come from. Depart from Me, all you workers of iniquity.’" 
Luke13:28 “There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out." 
Luke13:29 They will come from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south and will sit down to dine in the kingdom of God. 
Luke13:30 And behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.”" 
Luke13:31 On the same day certain Pharisees came, saying to Him, “Get out and depart from here, for Herod wants to kill You.”" 
Luke13:32 He said to them, “Go and tell that fox, ‘Behold, I cast out demons. And I perform healings today and tomorrow, and on the third day I shall be perfected.’" 
Luke13:33 Nevertheless I must travel today and tomorrow and the day following. For it cannot be that a prophet should perish outside Jerusalem. 
Luke13:34 “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to you! How often would I have gathered your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing!" 
Luke13:35 Behold, your house is forsaken. Truly I say to you, you shall not see Me until the time comes when you say, ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ”" 
Luke14:1 On the Sabbath they watched Him as He went into the house of one of the leaders of the Pharisees to eat bread. 
Luke14:2 And behold, there was a man before Him who had dropsy." 
Luke14:3 Jesus said to the lawyers and Pharisees, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?”" 
Luke14:4 But they remained silent. So He took him and healed him, and let him go." 
Luke14:5 Then He said, “Which of you having a donkey or an ox that has fallen into a pit will not immediately pull him out on the Sabbath day?”" 
Luke14:6 And they could not answer Him regarding these things. 
Luke14:7 When He marked how they chose the seats of honor, He told a parable to those who were invited, saying to them," 
Luke14:8 “When you are invited by any man to a wedding banquet, do not sit down in a seat of honor, lest a more honorable man than you be invited by him;" 
Luke14:9 and he who invited you both will come and say to you, ‘Give this man the seat,’ and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest seat." 
Luke14:10 But when you are invited, go and sit down in the lowest seat, so that when he who invited you comes, he may say to you, ‘Friend, go up higher.’ Then you will have respect in the presence of those who sit at dinner with you." 
Luke14:11 For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.”" 
Luke14:12 Then He said also to the one who invited Him, “When you prepare a dinner or a supper, do not call your friends or your brothers or your kinsmen or your rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid." 
Luke14:13 But when you prepare a banquet, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind," 
Luke14:14 and you will be blessed, for they cannot repay you. You shall be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”" 
Luke14:15 When one of those who sat at dinner with Him heard this, he said to Him, “Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God!”" 
Luke14:16 Then He said to him, “A man prepared a banquet and invited many," 
Luke14:17 and sent his servant at supper time to say to those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is now prepared.’" 
Luke14:18 “But they all with one mind began to make excuses. The first said to him, ‘I have bought a piece of land, and I must go and see it. I ask you to excuse me.’" 
Luke14:19 “Another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to prove them. I ask you to excuse me.’" 
Luke14:20 “Still another said, ‘I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.’" 
Luke14:21 “The servant came and reported this to his master. Then the master of the house in anger said to his servant, ‘Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and the maimed and the lame and the blind.’" 
Luke14:22 “The servant said, ‘Master, what you commanded has been done, and yet there is room.’" 
Luke14:23 “Then the master said to the servant, ‘Go out to the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled." 
Luke14:24 For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my supper.’ ”" 
Luke14:25 Large crowds went with Him. And He turned and said to them," 
Luke14:26 “If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be My disciple." 
Luke14:27 And whoever does not bear his cross and follow Me cannot be My disciple. 
Luke14:28 “For who among you, intending to build a tower, does not sit down first and count the cost to see whether he has resources to complete it?" 
Luke14:29 Otherwise, perhaps, after he has laid the foundation and is not able to complete it, all who see it will begin to mock him," 
Luke14:30 saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to complete it.’" 
Luke14:31 “Or what king, going to wage war against another king, does not sit down first and take counsel whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?" 
Luke14:32 Otherwise, while the other is yet at a distance, he sends a delegation and requests conditions of peace." 
Luke14:33 So likewise, any of you who does not forsake all that he has cannot be My disciple." 
Luke14:34 “Salt is good. But if the salt has lost its saltiness, how shall it be made salty?" 
Luke14:35 It is fit neither for the land nor for the manure pile. So men throw it out. “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Luke15:1 Now all the tax collectors and sinners drew near to Him to hear Him. 
Luke15:2 But the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, “This Man receives sinners and eats with them.”" 
Luke15:3 So He told them this parable, saying," 
Luke15:4 “What man among you having a hundred sheep and losing one of them does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the one which is lost until he finds it? 
Luke15:5 And when he has found it, he places it on his shoulders, rejoicing." 
Luke15:6 Then when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost.’" 
Luke15:7 Likewise, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous men who need no repentance." 
Luke15:8 “Or what woman, having ten silver coins and losing one, does not light a candle and sweep the house and search diligently until she finds it?" 
Luke15:9 And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin which I had lost.’" 
Luke15:10 Likewise, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents.”" 
Luke15:11 Then He said, “A man had two sons." 
Luke15:12 The younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of the property that falls to me.’ So he divided his estate between them." 
Luke15:13 “Not many days later, the younger son gathered everything together, and journeyed to a distant country, and there squandered his possessions in prodigal living." 
Luke15:14 When he had spent everything, there came a severe famine in that country, and he began to be in want." 
Luke15:15 So he went and hired himself to a citizen of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed swine." 
Luke15:16 He would gladly have filled his stomach with the husks that the swine were eating, but no one gave him any." 
Luke15:17 “When he came to himself, he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired servants have an abundance of bread, and here I am perishing with hunger!" 
Luke15:18 I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you." 
Luke15:19 I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants.” ’ 
Luke15:20 So he arose and came to his father. “But while he was yet far away, his father saw him and was moved with compassion, and ran and embraced his neck and kissed him." 
Luke15:21 “The son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’" 
Luke15:22 “But the father said to his servants, ‘Bring out the best robe and put it on him. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet." 
Luke15:23 Bring here the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and be merry." 
Luke15:24 For this son of mine was dead, and is alive again; he was lost and is found.’ So they began to be merry." 
Luke15:25 “Now his older son was in the field. As he came and drew near the house, he heard music and dancing." 
Luke15:26 So he called one of the servants and asked what this meant. 
Luke15:27 He said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him safe and sound.’" 
Luke15:28 “He was angry and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and entreated him. 
Luke15:29 But he answered his father, ‘Look! These many years have I served you. Nor have I ever transgressed your commands, yet never have you given me a goat, so that I might be merry with my friends." 
Luke15:30 But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your living with harlots, you killed the fattened calf for him.’" 
Luke15:31 “He said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours." 
Luke15:32 But it was fitting to be merry and be glad, for this brother of yours was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found.’ ”" 
Luke16:1 He told His disciples: “There was a rich man who had a steward who was accused to the man of wasting his resources. 
Luke16:2 So he called him and said, ‘How is it that I hear this about you? Give an account of your stewardship, for you may no longer be steward.’" 
Luke16:3 “Then the steward said to himself, ‘What shall I do, for my master is taking away the stewardship from me? I cannot dig. I am ashamed to beg." 
Luke16:4 I know what to do so that, when I am removed from the stewardship, others may receive me into their houses.’" 
Luke16:5 “So he called each of his master’s debtors, and said to the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’" 
Luke16:6 “He said, ‘Eight hundred gallons of oil.’ “He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write four hundred.’" 
Luke16:7 “Then he said to another, ‘And how much do you owe?’ “He said, ‘One thousand bushels of wheat.’ “He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and write eight hundred.’" 
Luke16:8 “The master commended the dishonest steward, because he had acted prudently. For the sons of this age are wiser in their own generation than the sons of light." 
Luke16:9 I say to you, make friends for yourself by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when you fall short, they may receive you into eternal dwellings." 
Luke16:10 “He who is faithful in what is least is faithful also in much. And he who is dishonest in the least is dishonest also in much. 
Luke16:11 So if you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will commit to your trust the true riches?" 
Luke16:12 And if you have not been faithful in that which is another man’s, who will give you that which is your own?" 
Luke16:13 “No servant can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth.”" 
Luke16:14 The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things and derided Him." 
Luke16:15 He said to them, “You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed before men is an abomination before God." 
Luke16:16 “The Law and the Prophets were preached until John. Since then the kingdom of God has been preached, and everyone is pressing into it." 
Luke16:16 “The Law and the Prophets were preached until John. Since then the kingdom of God has been preached, and everyone is pressing into it." 
Luke16:17 It is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of the law to fail. 
Luke16:18 “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and whoever marries her who is divorced by her husband commits adultery." 
Luke16:19 “There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. 
Luke16:20 There was also a beggar named Lazarus, covered with sores, who had been placed at his gate," 
Luke16:21 desiring to be fed the crumbs falling from the rich man’s table. Moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. 
Luke16:22 “It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham’s presence. The rich man also died and was buried. 
Luke16:23 In Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham from a distance and Lazarus in his presence." 
Luke16:24 So he cried out, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. For I am tormented in this flame.’" 
Luke16:25 “But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil things. But now he is comforted and you are tormented." 
Luke16:26 And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, so that those who would pass from here to you cannot, nor can those from there pass to us.’" 
Luke16:27 “He said, ‘Then I pray you, father, to send him to my father’s house," 
Luke16:28 for I have five brothers, to testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment.’" 
Luke16:29 “Abraham said to him, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets. Let them hear them.’" 
Luke16:30 “He said, ‘No, father Abraham. But if someone from the dead goes to them, they will repent.’" 
Luke16:31 “He said to him, ‘If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded if someone should rise from the dead.’ ”" 
Luke17:1 Then He said to the disciples, “It is impossible for offenses not to come, but woe to him through whom they come!" 
Luke17:2 It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than to offend one of these little ones." 
Luke17:3 Take heed to yourselves. “If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. And if he repents, forgive him." 
Luke17:4 If he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turns to you, saying, ‘I repent,’ you must forgive him.”" 
Luke17:5 The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith.”" 
Luke17:6 The Lord said, “If you had faith as a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and be planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you." 
Luke17:7 “Which of you, having a servant plowing or herding sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, ‘Come now and sit down for dinner’?" 
Luke17:8 Will he not rather say to him, ‘Prepare my supper, and dress yourself and serve me until I eat and drink. And afterward you will eat and drink’?" 
Luke17:9 Does he thank the servant, because he did what was commanded? I think not." 
Luke17:10 So you also, when you have done everything commanded you, say, ‘We are unprofitable servants. We have done our duty.’ ”" 
Luke17:11 As Jesus went to Jerusalem, He passed between Samaria and Galilee." 
Luke17:12 As He entered a village, there met Him ten men who were lepers, who stood at a distance." 
Luke17:13 They lifted up their voices, saying, “Jesus, Master, have pity on us!”" 
Luke17:14 When He saw them, He said to them, “Go, show yourselves to the priests.” And as they went, they were cleansed." 
Luke17:15 One of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned with a loud voice glorifying God," 
Luke17:16 and fell down on his face at His feet, giving Him thanks. And he was a Samaritan." 
Luke17:17 Jesus said, “Were not the ten cleansed? Where are the nine?" 
Luke17:18 Were there not any found to return and give glory to God except this foreigner?” 
Luke17:19 Then He said to him, “Rise, go your way. Your faith has made you well.”" 
Luke17:20 When He was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, He answered, “The kingdom of God does not come with observation." 
Luke17:21 Nor will they say, ‘Look, here it is!’ or ‘There it is!’ for behold, the kingdom of God is within you.”" 
Luke17:22 Then He said to the disciples, “The days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, but you will not see it." 
Luke17:23 They will say to you, ‘Look here,’ or ‘Look there!’ Do not follow after them." 
Luke17:24 For as the lightning flashes and lights up the heavens from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in His day." 
Luke17:25 But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
Luke17:26 “Just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man." 
Luke17:27 They were eating, drinking, marrying, and were given in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark. Then the flood came and destroyed them all." 
Luke17:28 “Likewise as it was in the days of Lot: They ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built." 
Luke17:29 But on the day that Lot departed from Sodom, fire and brimstone rained from heaven and destroyed them all." 
Luke17:30 “So will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed. 
Luke17:31 On that day let him who is on the housetop, with his goods in the house, not come down to take them away. And likewise let him who is in the field not return to the things behind." 
Luke17:32 Remember Lot’s wife. 
Luke17:33 Whoever seeks to save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it." 
Luke17:34 I tell you, on that night two men will be in one bed; the one will be taken and the other will be left." 
Luke17:35 Two women will be grinding grain together; the one will be taken and the other will be left. 
Luke17:36 Two men will be in the field; the one will be taken and the other will be left.” 
Luke17:37 They asked, “Where, Lord?” He replied, “Where the body is, there the vultures will be gathered together.”" 
Luke18:1 He told them a parable to illustrate that it is necessary always to pray and not lose heart. 
Luke18:2 He said: “In a city there was a judge who did not fear God or regard man. 
Luke18:3 And a widow was in that city. She came to him, saying, ‘Avenge me against my adversary.’" 
Luke18:4 “He would not for a while. Yet afterward he said to himself, ‘Though I do not fear God or respect man," 
Luke18:5 yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she will weary me.’ ”" 
Luke18:6 And the Lord said, “Hear what the unjust judge says." 
Luke18:7 And shall not God avenge His own elect and be patient with them, who cry day and night to Him?" 
Luke18:8 I tell you, He will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will He find faith on the earth?”" 
Luke18:9 He told this parable to some who trusted in themselves, as though they were righteous, and despised others:" 
Luke18:10 “Two men went up to the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector." 
Luke18:11 The Pharisee stood and prayed these things about himself, ‘God, I thank You that I am not like other men: extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector." 
Luke18:12 I fast twice a week, and I tithe of all that I earn.’" 
Luke18:13 “But the tax collector, standing at a distance, would not even lift his eyes to heaven, but struck his chest, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me a sinner.’" 
Luke18:14 “I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.”" 
Luke18:15 They also brought infants to Him that He might bless them. When the disciples saw it, they rebuked them." 
Luke18:16 But Jesus called them to Him and said, “Permit the little children to come to Me, and do not hinder them. For to such belongs the kingdom of God." 
Luke18:17 Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will never enter it.”" 
Luke18:18 A certain ruler asked Him, “Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”" 
Luke18:19 Jesus said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good, except God alone." 
Luke18:20 You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and your mother. ”" 
Luke18:21 He said, “All these I have kept since my youth.”" 
Luke18:22 When Jesus heard this, He said to him, “Yet you lack one thing. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow Me.”" 
Luke18:23 When he heard this, he became very sorrowful; for he was very rich." 
Luke18:24 When Jesus saw that he became very sorrowful, He said, “How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God!" 
Luke18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Luke18:26 Those who heard this said, “Who then can be saved?”" 
Luke18:27 He said, “What is impossible with men is possible with God.”" 
Luke18:28 Peter said, “Look, we have left everything and followed You.”" 
Luke18:29 He said to them, “Truly, I tell you, there is no man who has left his home or parents or brothers or wife or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God," 
Luke18:30 who shall not receive many times more in this age and, in the age to come, eternal life.”" 
Luke18:31 Taking the twelve, He said, “Listen! We are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be accomplished," 
Luke18:32 for He will be handed over to the Gentiles and will be mocked and insulted and spit upon. 
Luke18:33 They will scourge Him and put Him to death, and on the third day He will rise again.”" 
Luke18:34 They understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend what was spoken." 
Luke18:35 As He was drawing near Jericho, a certain blind man sat along the way begging." 
Luke18:36 Hearing a crowd passing by, he asked what it meant." 
Luke18:37 They told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. 
Luke18:38 He cried out, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Luke18:39 Those who went in front rebuked him, so that he would keep quiet. But he cried out much more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Luke18:40 Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought to Him. When he came near, He asked him," 
Luke18:41 “What do you want Me to do for you?” He said, “Lord, grant that I may receive my sight.”" 
Luke18:42 Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight. Your faith has saved you.”" 
Luke18:43 Immediately he received his sight and followed Him, glorifying God. When all the people saw it, they gave praise to God." 
Luke19:1 Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. 
Luke19:2 And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus who was a chief tax collector, and he was rich." 
Luke19:3 He tried to see who Jesus was, but was not able from the crowd, because he was little in stature." 
Luke19:4 So he ran ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see Him, for He was to pass that way." 
Luke19:5 When Jesus came to the vicinity, He looked up and saw him, and said to him, “Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for today I must remain at your house.”" 
Luke19:6 So he hurried and came down, and received Him joyfully." 
Luke19:7 When they saw it, they all murmured, saying, “He has gone to be the guest of a man who is a sinner.”" 
Luke19:8 But Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, “Behold, Lord, I give half of my possessions to the poor. And if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I will repay him four times as much.”" 
Luke19:9 Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham." 
Luke19:10 For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost.” 
Luke19:11 As they heard these things, He continued and told them a parable, because He was near Jerusalem and because they thought the kingdom of God would immediately appear." 
Luke19:12 Therefore He said, “A nobleman went to a distant country to receive a kingdom and to return." 
Luke19:13 So he called his ten servants and entrusted to them ten pounds and said to them, ‘Trade until I come.’" 
Luke19:14 “But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We do not want this man to reign over us.’" 
Luke19:15 “When he returned, having received the kingdom, he summoned these servants, to whom he had entrusted the money, that he might know what everyone gained by trading." 
Luke19:16 “The first came, saying, ‘Master, your pound has made ten pounds more.’" 
Luke19:17 “He said to him, ‘Well done, good servant! Because you have been faithful in very little, take authority over ten cities.’" 
Luke19:18 “The second came, saying, ‘Master, your pound has made five pounds more.’" 
Luke19:19 “He said in like manner to him, ‘You, take authority over five cities.’" 
Luke19:20 “Then another came, saying, ‘Master, look, here is your pound, which I have kept put away in a napkin." 
Luke19:21 For I feared you, because you are an exacting man. You collect what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow.’" 
Luke19:22 “He said to him, ‘Out of your own mouth will I judge you, you wicked servant. You knew that I was an exacting man, collecting what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow." 
Luke19:23 Why then did you not deposit my money in the bank, so that at my coming I might have collected it with interest?’" 
Luke19:24 “Then he said to those who stood by, ‘Take the pound from him and give it to him who has ten pounds.’" 
Luke19:25 “They said to him, ‘Master, he has ten pounds.’" 
Luke19:26 “ ‘I tell you that to everyone who has will be given. But from him who has not, even what he has will be taken away from him." 
Luke19:27 But as for those enemies of mine, who would not let me reign over them, bring them here and slay them before me.’ ”" 
Luke19:28 When He had said this, He went before them, ascending up to Jerusalem." 
Luke19:29 When He came near to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mountain called the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples," 
Luke19:30 saying, “Go over into the village opposite you, where, as you enter, you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here." 
Luke19:31 If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you shall say to him, ‘Because the Lord has need of it.’ ”" 
Luke19:32 Those who were sent went and found it just as He had told them. 
Luke19:33 As they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying the colt?”" 
Luke19:34 They said, “The Lord has need of it.”" 
Luke19:35 They brought it to Jesus. And they threw their garments on the colt, and they set Jesus on it." 
Luke19:36 As He went, they spread their clothes in the street." 
Luke19:37 When He was coming near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with loud voices for all the mighty works that they had seen," 
Luke19:38 saying: “ ‘Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord!’ Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!” 
Luke19:39 Some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, rebuke Your disciples.”" 
Luke19:40 He answered, “I tell you, if these should be silent, the stones would immediately cry out.”" 
Luke19:41 When He came near, He beheld the city and wept over it," 
Luke19:42 saying, “If you, even you, had known even today what things would bring you peace! But now they are hidden from your eyes." 
Luke19:43 For the days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you and surround you, and press you in on every side." 
Luke19:44 They will dash you, and your children within you, to the ground. They will not leave one stone upon another within you, because you did not know the time of your visitation.”" 
Luke19:45 Then He entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold and bought in it," 
Luke19:46 saying to them, “It is written, ‘My house will be a house of prayer,’ but you have made it ‘a den of thieves.’ ”" 
Luke19:47 He taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests, the scribes, and the leaders of the people tried to kill Him." 
Luke19:48 Yet they could not find a way to do it, for all the people were very attentive to hear Him." 
Luke20:1 One day, as He taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up to Him," 
Luke20:2 and said to Him, “Tell us, by what authority are You doing these things? Who is he who gave You this authority?”" 
Luke20:3 He answered them, “I will also ask you one thing. Answer Me:" 
Luke20:4 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men?” 
Luke20:4 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men?” 
Luke20:5 They debated with themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’" 
Luke20:6 But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet.”" 
Luke20:6 But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet.”" 
Luke20:7 So they answered that they did not know where it was from. 
Luke20:8 Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”" 
Luke20:9 He began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard, and leased it to vinedressers, and went to a distant country for a long time." 
Luke20:10 At harvest time he sent a servant to the vinedressers so they might give him some fruit of the vineyard. But the vinedressers beat him and sent him away empty-handed. 
Luke20:11 Again, he sent another servant. But they beat him also, and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed." 
Luke20:12 Once again, he sent a third. And they wounded him also and drove him out." 
Luke20:13 “Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. Perhaps they will respect him when they see him.’" 
Luke20:14 “But when the vinedressers saw him, they debated among themselves, saying, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.’" 
Luke20:15 So they drove him out of the vineyard and killed him. “What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? 
Luke20:16 He will come and kill these vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.” When they heard this, they said, “May it not be so!”" 
Luke20:17 He looked at them and said, “What then is this that is written: ‘The stone which the builders rejected has become the cornerstone’?" 
Luke20:18 Whoever falls on that stone will be broken. But he on whom it falls will be crushed to powder.” 
Luke20:19 The chief priests and the scribes tried to lay their hands on Him that same hour, but they feared the people. For they perceived that He had told this parable against them." 
Luke20:20 They watched Him and sent out spies who pretended to be righteous men, that they might seize Him in His words to hand Him over to the power and authority of the governor." 
Luke20:21 So they asked Him, “Teacher, we know that You speak and teach rightly. And You do not show partiality, but You truly teach the way of God." 
Luke20:22 Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”" 
Luke20:23 He perceived their craftiness and said to them, “Why do you test Me?" 
Luke20:24 Show Me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have?” They said, “Caesar’s.”" 
Luke20:25 He said to them, “Then render to Caesar what is Caesar’s, and to God what is God’s.”" 
Luke20:26 They could not catch Him in His words before the people. And they marveled at His answer and were silent. 
Luke20:27 Some of the Sadducees, who deny that there is any resurrection, came to Him and asked Him," 
Luke20:28 “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies, having a wife but no children, then this man should take the wife and raise up children for his brother." 
Luke20:29 Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife and died childless. 
Luke20:30 The second took her as wife, and he died childless." 
Luke20:31 And then the third took her, and in like manner, all seven died and left no children." 
Luke20:32 Last of all, the woman died also." 
Luke20:33 Therefore in the resurrection whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as a wife.” 
Luke20:34 Jesus answered them, “The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage." 
Luke20:35 But those who are counted worthy to attain that age, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage." 
Luke20:36 For they cannot die any more, for they are equal to the angels and are the sons of God, being sons of the resurrection." 
Luke20:37 Now, at the bush, even Moses pointed out that the dead are raised when he called the Lord ‘the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’" 
Luke20:38 For He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. For to Him all live.”" 
Luke20:39 Some of the scribes said, “Teacher, You have spoken well.”" 
Luke20:40 After that they dared not ask Him any question at all. 
Luke20:41 Then Jesus said to them, “How do they say that Christ is David’s Son?" 
Luke20:42 David himself says in the Book of Psalms, ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand," 
Luke20:43 until I make Your enemies Your footstool.” ’ 
Luke20:44 David therefore calls Him ‘Lord.’ How is He then his Son?” 
Luke20:45 Then as all the people heard, He said to His disciples," 
Luke20:46 “Beware of the scribes who desire to walk in long robes and who love greetings in the marketplaces and the prominent seats in the synagogues and the seats of honor at banquets," 
Luke20:47 who devour widows’ houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive greater condemnation.” 
Luke21:1 He looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts in the treasury. 
Luke21:2 He also saw a poor widow putting in two mites," 
Luke21:3 and He said, “Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them." 
Luke21:4 For all these out of their abundance have put in their gifts for God. But she out of her poverty has put in all the living she had.” 
Luke21:5 As some spoke of how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones and gifts, He said," 
Luke21:6 “As for these things which you see, the days will come when not one stone shall be left on another that will not be thrown down.”" 
Luke21:7 They asked Him, “Teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when this is about to happen?”" 
Luke21:8 He said, “Beware lest you be deceived. For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am He,’ and ‘The time has drawn near.’ Therefore do not go after them." 
Luke21:9 When you hear of wars and commotions, do not be afraid. For these things must first take place, but the end will not be at hand.”" 
Luke21:10 Then He said to them, “Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom." 
Luke21:11 Great earthquakes will occur in various places, and there will be famines and pestilence. And there will be terrors and great signs from heaven." 
Luke21:12 “But before all these things, they will seize you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and rulers for My name’s sake." 
Luke21:13 It will turn out as a testimony for you. 
Luke21:14 Therefore resolve in your hearts beforehand not to practice your defense. 
Luke21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your opponents will be able to neither refute nor resist." 
Luke21:16 You will be betrayed by parents and brothers and relatives and friends. And they will put some of you to death. 
Luke21:17 You will be hated by all men for My name’s sake," 
Luke21:18 but not a hair of your head shall perish. 
Luke21:19 In your endurance you will gain your souls. 
Luke21:20 “When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then you know that its desolation has drawn near." 
Luke21:21 Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are in the city depart, and let not those who are in the country enter it." 
Luke21:21 Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are in the city depart, and let not those who are in the country enter it." 
Luke21:22 For these are the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled." 
Luke21:23 But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who nurse in those days! For there will be great distress in the land and wrath upon this people. 
Luke21:24 They will fall by the edge of the sword and will be led away captive to all nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled on by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. 
Luke21:25 “There will be signs in the sun and the moon and the stars; and on the earth distress of nations, with perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring;" 
Luke21:26 men fainting from fear and expectation of what is coming on the inhabited earth. For the powers of heaven will be shaken. 
Luke21:27 Then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 
Luke21:28 When these things begin to happen, look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption is drawing near.”" 
Luke21:29 He told them this parable: “Look at the fig tree, and all the trees." 
Luke21:30 When they are sprouting leaves already, you see and know for yourselves that summer is now near." 
Luke21:31 So in like manner, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near." 
Luke21:32 “Truly, I tell you, this generation will not pass away until all these things are fulfilled." 
Luke21:33 Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away." 
Luke21:34 “Take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts become burdened by excessiveness and drunkenness and anxieties of life, and that Day comes on you unexpectedly." 
Luke21:35 For as a snare it will come on all those who dwell on the surface of the whole earth. 
Luke21:36 Therefore watch always and pray that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things that will happen and to stand before the Son of Man.” 
Luke21:37 Each day He was teaching in the temple, and each night He went out and stayed on the mountain called the Mount of Olives." 
Luke21:38 And all the people came early in the morning to hear Him in the temple. 
Luke22:1 Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, drew near." 
Luke22:2 And the chief priests and scribes were seeking how to kill Jesus, for they feared the people." 
Luke22:3 Then Satan entered into Judas, called Iscariot, who was one of the twelve." 
Luke22:4 He went and discussed with the chief priests and captains how he might betray Him to them. 
Luke22:5 They were glad and agreed to give him money. 
Luke22:6 He fully consented and searched for an opportunity to betray Him to them apart from the crowds. 
Luke22:7 Then the Day of Unleavened Bread came, when the Passover lamb must be killed." 
Luke22:8 He sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us to eat it.”" 
Luke22:8 He sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us to eat it.”" 
Luke22:9 They said to Him, “Where will You have us prepare it?”" 
Luke22:10 He said to them, “Behold, when you have entered the city, a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you there. Follow him into the house which he enters," 
Luke22:11 and say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you, “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with My disciples?” ’" 
Luke22:12 He will show you a large furnished upper room. Prepare there.” 
Luke22:13 They went and found it as He had told them. So they prepared the Passover. 
Luke22:14 When the hour had come, He and the twelve apostles with Him sat down." 
Luke22:15 And He said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer." 
Luke22:16 For I tell you, I will never eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke22:17 And He took the cup and gave thanks and said, “Take this and divide it among yourselves." 
Luke22:18 For I tell you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.”" 
Luke22:19 Then He took the bread, and when He had given thanks, He broke it and gave it to them, saying, “This is My body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of Me.”" 
Luke22:20 In like manner, He took the cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood which is shed for you." 
Luke22:21 But behold, the hand of him who betrays Me is with Me on the table." 
Luke22:22 Indeed, the Son of Man goes as it has been determined. But woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!”" 
Luke22:23 They began to inquire among themselves which of them it was who would do this. 
Luke22:24 There was also rivalry among them concerning which of them was to be counted the greatest. 
Luke22:25 He said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called benefactors." 
Luke22:26 But you are not so. Instead, let him who is greatest among you be as the younger, and he who rules as he who serves." 
Luke22:27 For who is greater: he who sits at the table, or he who serves? Is it not he who sits at the table? But I am among you as He who serves." 
Luke22:28 You are those who have continued with Me in My trials. 
Luke22:29 And I appoint to you a kingdom as My Father has appointed one to Me," 
Luke22:30 so that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”" 
Luke22:31 Then the Lord said, “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to have you to sift you as wheat." 
Luke22:32 But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have repented, strengthen your brothers.”" 
Luke22:33 He said to Him, “Lord, I am ready to go with You to prison and to death.”" 
Luke22:34 He said, “I tell you, Peter, before the cock crows today, you will deny three times that you know Me.”" 
Luke22:35 Then He said to them, “When I sent you without bag or pouch or sandals, did you lack anything?” They said, “Nothing.”" 
Luke22:36 He said to them, “But now, let him who has a bag take it and also a pouch. And let him who has no sword sell his garment and buy one." 
Luke22:37 For I tell you, what is written must yet be accomplished in Me, ‘And He was numbered with the transgressors.’ Indeed, what is written concerning Me has a fulfillment.”" 
Luke22:38 They said, “Lord, look, here are two swords.” He said to them, “It is enough.”" 
Luke22:39 According to His custom, He came out and went to the Mount of Olives. And His disciples followed Him." 
Luke22:40 When He came there, He said to them, “Pray that you may not fall into temptation.”" 
Luke22:41 He withdrew from them about a stone’s throw, and He knelt down and prayed," 
Luke22:42 “Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from Me. Nevertheless not My will, but Yours, be done.”" 
Luke22:43 An angel from heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him." 
Luke22:44 And being in anguish, He prayed more earnestly. And His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground." 
Luke22:45 When He rose from prayer and had come to His disciples, He found them sleeping from sorrow." 
Luke22:46 He said to them, “Why do you sleep? Rise and pray, lest you fall into temptation.”" 
Luke22:47 While He was yet speaking, a crowd came. And he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss Him." 
Luke22:48 But Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?”" 
Luke22:49 When those who were around Him saw what would follow, they said, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?”" 
Luke22:50 And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. 
Luke22:51 But Jesus said, “This is enough!” And He touched his ear and healed him." 
Luke22:52 Then Jesus said to the chief priests, and captains of the temple guard, and the elders who had come for Him, “Have you come out with swords and clubs as against a rebel?" 
Luke22:53 Daily, while I was with you in the temple, you did not lay hands on Me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness!”" 
Luke22:54 Then they arrested Him, and led Him away, and brought Him into the high priest’s house. Peter followed at a distance." 
Luke22:55 But when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat among them." 
Luke22:56 Then a servant girl saw him as he sat near the fire, and gazed at him, and said, “This man was with Him.”" 
Luke22:57 But he denied Him, saying, “Woman, I do not know Him.”" 
Luke22:58 A little later someone else saw him and said, “You also are one of them.” Peter said, “Man, I am not!”" 
Luke22:59 About an hour later another man firmly declared, “Certainly, this man also was with Him, for he is a Galilean.”" 
Luke22:60 Peter said, “Man, I do not know what you are saying.” Immediately, while he was yet speaking, the cock crowed." 
Luke22:61 The Lord turned and looked at Peter. Then Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had told him, “Before the cock crows, you will deny Me three times.”" 
Luke22:62 And Peter went outside and wept bitterly. 
Luke22:63 The men who guarded Jesus mocked Him and whipped Him. 
Luke22:64 When they had blindfolded Him, they struck Him on the face and asked Him, “Prophesy! Who struck You?”" 
Luke22:65 And many other things they blasphemously spoke against Him. 
Luke22:66 When day came, the assembly of the elders of the people, both the chief priests and scribes, came together and led Him away to their council, saying," 
Luke22:67 “Are You the Christ? Tell us!” He said to them, “If I tell you, you will not believe." 
Luke22:68 And if I also question you, you will not answer Me or release Me." 
Luke22:69 From now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.” 
Luke22:70 They all said, “Are You then the Son of God?” He said to them, “You truly say that I am.”" 
Luke22:71 Then they said, “What further testimony do we need? We have heard it from His own mouth.”" 
Luke23:1 Then the whole assembly rose and led Him to Pilate. 
Luke23:2 And they began to accuse Him, saying, “We found this Man perverting our nation, and forbidding us to pay taxes to Caesar, and saying that He Himself is Christ a King.”" 
Luke23:3 So Pilate asked Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” He answered, “You truly say so.”" 
Luke23:4 Then Pilate said to the chief priests and to the people, “I find no fault in this Man.”" 
Luke23:5 But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee to here.”" 
Luke23:5 But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee to here.”" 
Luke23:6 When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the Man was a Galilean." 
Luke23:7 When he learned that He belonged to Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time." 
Luke23:8 When Herod saw Jesus, he greatly rejoiced, for he had desired to see Him for a long time, because he had heard many things of Him, and he was hoping to see some miracle performed by Him." 
Luke23:9 He questioned Him with many words, but He gave no answer." 
Luke23:10 The chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing Him." 
Luke23:11 Then Herod, with his soldiers, treated Him with contempt and mocked Him. Then, dressing Him in a fine robe, he sent Him back to Pilate." 
Luke23:12 On the same day Pilate and Herod became friends with each other, having previously been at enmity with each other." 
Luke23:13 Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people," 
Luke23:14 and said to them, “You have brought this Man to me as one who incites the people. And behold, having examined Him before you, I have found no fault in this Man concerning those things of which you accuse Him." 
Luke23:15 No, neither has Herod, for he sent him back to us; and indeed, nothing worthy of death has been done by Him." 
Luke23:16 I will therefore chastise Him and release Him.” 
Luke23:17 For he was obligated to release one man to them at the feast. 
Luke23:18 But they all cried out at once saying, “Take this Man away and release Barabbas to us!”" 
Luke23:19 This man had been thrown in prison for an insurrection in the city and for murder. 
Luke23:20 Therefore Pilate spoke to them again, desiring to release Jesus." 
Luke23:21 But they cried out, “Crucify Him! Crucify Him!”" 
Luke23:22 He said to them a third time, “Why, what evil has He done? I have found in Him no cause worthy of death. I will therefore chastise Him and release Him.”" 
Luke23:23 But they insisted with loud voices, asking that He be crucified. And the voices of these men and of the chief priests prevailed." 
Luke23:24 So Pilate gave the sentence as they demanded. 
Luke23:25 He released to them the man who was thrown in prison for insurrection and murder, whom they asked for. But he sentenced Jesus according to their will." 
Luke23:26 As they led Him away, they seized Simon of Cyrene, who was coming from the country, and they laid the cross on him to carry it behind Jesus." 
Luke23:27 A large number of people followed Him, including women who mourned and lamented Him." 
Luke23:28 Jesus turned to them, saying, “Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for Me, but weep for yourselves and for your children." 
Luke23:29 For behold, the days are coming when they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, who never bore and never nursed!’" 
Luke23:30 Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.’" 
Luke23:31 For if men do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?”" 
Luke23:32 Two different men, who were criminals, also were led with Him to be killed." 
Luke23:33 When they came to the place which is called The Skull, there they crucified Him and the criminals, one on the right and one on the left." 
Luke23:34 Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” And they divided His clothes by casting lots." 
Luke23:35 The people stood by watching. But the rulers with them scoffed, saying, “He saved others. Let Him save Himself if He is the Christ, the Chosen One of God.”" 
Luke23:36 And the soldiers also mocked Him, coming to Him and offering Him sour wine," 
Luke23:37 saying, “If You are the King of the Jews, save Yourself.”" 
Luke23:38 An inscription was written over Him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew: this is the king of the jews***. 
Luke23:39 One of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed Him, saying, “If You are the Christ, save Yourself and us!”" 
Luke23:40 But the other rebuked him, saying, “Do you not fear God, seeing you are under the same sentence?" 
Luke23:41 And we indeed, justly. For we are receiving the due reward of our deeds. But this Man has done nothing amiss.”" 
Luke23:42 Then he said to Jesus, “Lord, remember me when You come into Your kingdom.”" 
Luke23:43 Jesus said to him, “Truly, I tell you, today you will be with Me in Paradise.”" 
Luke23:44 It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness came over all the land until the ninth hour," 
Luke23:45 while the sun was darkened. And the veil of the temple was torn in the middle. 
Luke23:46 And Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit.” Having said this, He gave up the spirit." 
Luke23:47 When the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God and said, “Certainly, this was a righteous Man.”" 
Luke23:48 All the crowds who came together to that sight, witnessing what occurred, struck their chests and returned." 
Luke23:49 But all those who knew Him and the women accompanying Him from Galilee stood at a distance, seeing these things." 
Luke23:50 Now there was a man named Joseph, a member of the Council, who was a good and just man." 
Luke23:51 He had not consented to their counsel and deed. He was from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, and he himself was also waiting for the kingdom of God." 
Luke23:52 This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. 
Luke23:53 Then he took Him down, and wrapped Him in linen, and placed Him in a hewn tomb, where no one had ever been buried." 
Luke23:54 It was the Day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was drawing near." 
Luke23:55 The women who came with Him from Galilee followed, and saw the tomb and how His body was placed." 
Luke23:56 Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. 
Luke24:1 Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they, and certain other women with them, came to the tomb bringing the spices they had prepared." 
Luke24:2 They found the stone rolled away from the tomb. 
Luke24:3 But when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus." 
Luke24:4 While they were greatly perplexed concerning this, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments." 
Luke24:5 As they were afraid and bowed their faces to the ground, they said to them, “Why do you seek the living among the dead?" 
Luke24:6 He is not here, but has risen! Remember how He spoke to you while He was still in Galilee," 
Luke24:7 saying, ‘The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.’  ”" 
Luke24:8 Then they remembered His words. 
Luke24:9 And they returned from the tomb and reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. 
Luke24:10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and other women with them, who told these things to the apostles." 
Luke24:10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and other women with them, who told these things to the apostles." 
Luke24:11 But their words seemed like fables to them, and they did not believe them." 
Luke24:12 But Peter rose and ran to the tomb. Stooping down, he saw the linen clothes lying by themselves. He departed, wondering in himself what had happened." 
Luke24:13 Now that same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem." 
Luke24:14 They were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. 
Luke24:15 While they communed and reasoned together, Jesus Himself drew near and went with them." 
Luke24:16 But their eyes were kept from recognizing Him. 
Luke24:17 He said to them, “What kind of communication are you sharing with one another while you are walking and are sad?”" 
Luke24:18 One of them, named Cleopas, answered Him, “Are You the only foreigner in Jerusalem who does not know what has happened there in these days?”" 
Luke24:19 He said to them, “What things?” They said to Him, “Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, powerful in deed and word before God and all the people," 
Luke24:20 and how our chief priests and rulers handed Him over to be sentenced to death and crucified Him. 
Luke24:21 But we were hoping that it was He who was to redeem Israel. Moreover, today is the third day since these things happened." 
Luke24:22 Even some women from among us, who arrived early at the tomb, surprised us." 
Luke24:23 When they did not find His body, they returned saying that they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that He was alive." 
Luke24:24 Then some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said. But they did not see Him.” 
Luke24:25 He said to them, “O fools! And slow of heart to believe what the prophets have spoken!" 
Luke24:26 Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter His glory?” 
Luke24:27 And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, He explained to them the things concerning Himself in all the Scriptures." 
Luke24:28 They drew near the village where they were traveling, and He seemed to be going farther." 
Luke24:29 But they urged Him, saying, “Stay with us. For it is nearly evening and the day is far spent.” So He went in to stay with them." 
Luke24:30 As He sat at supper with them, He took the bread, blessed it and broke it, and gave it to them." 
Luke24:31 Then their eyes were opened, and they recognized Him. And He vanished out of their sight." 
Luke24:32 They said to each other, “Did not our hearts burn within us while He talked to us on the way and while He opened the Scriptures to us?”" 
Luke24:33 They rose up and returned to Jerusalem at once. And they found the eleven and those who were with them assembled together," 
Luke24:34 saying, “The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!”" 
Luke24:35 Then they reported what had happened on the way, and how He was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread." 
Luke24:36 As they were saying this, Jesus Himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be unto you.”" 
Luke24:37 They were terrified and frightened, and supposed that they saw a spirit." 
Luke24:38 He said to them, “Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?" 
Luke24:39 See My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself. Feel Me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.”" 
Luke24:40 When He said this, He showed them His hands and His feet." 
Luke24:41 And while they yet disbelieved for joy and wondered, He said to them, “Do you have any food here?”" 
Luke24:42 They gave Him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb. 
Luke24:43 And He took it and ate it before them. 
Luke24:44 He said to them, “These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the Law of Moses and in the Prophets and in the Psalms concerning Me.”" 
Luke24:45 Then He opened their minds to understand the Scriptures. 
Luke24:46 He said to them, “Thus it is written, and accordingly it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day," 
Luke24:47 and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in His name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem." 
Luke24:48 You are witnesses of these things. 
Luke24:49 And behold, I am sending the promise of My Father upon you. But wait in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high.”" 
Luke24:50 Then He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted up His hands and blessed them." 
Luke24:51 While He blessed them, He parted from them and was carried up into heaven." 
Luke24:52 Then they worshipped Him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy," 
Luke24:53 and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen." 
John1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." 
John1:2 He was in the beginning with God. 
John1:3 All things were created through Him, and without Him nothing was created that was created." 
John1:4 In Him was life, and the life was the light of mankind." 
John1:5 The light shines in darkness, but the darkness has not overcome it." 
John1:6 There was a man sent from God whose name was John. 
John1:7 This man came as a witness in order to testify concerning the Light, that all men through Him might believe." 
John1:8 He was not this Light, but was sent in order to testify concerning the Light." 
John1:9 The true Light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world." 
John1:10 He was in the world, and the world was created through Him, yet the world did not know Him." 
John1:11 He came to His own, and His own people did not receive Him." 
John1:12 Yet to all who received Him, He gave the power to become sons of God, to those who believed in His name," 
John1:13 who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God." 
John1:14 The Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw His glory, the glory as of the only begotten Son of the Father, full of grace and truth." 
John1:15 John bore witness of Him and cried out, “This was He of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me is preferred before me, for He was before me.’ ”" 
John1:16 We have all received from His fullness grace upon grace. 
John1:17 For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 
John1:18 No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, who at the Father’s side, has made Him known." 
John1:19 Now this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are you?”" 
John1:20 He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, “I am not the Christ.”" 
John1:21 They asked him, “Who then? Are you Elijah?” He said, “I am not.” “Are you the Prophet?” He answered, “No.”" 
John1:22 They said to him then, “Who are you? Tell us so that we may give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say concerning yourself?”" 
John1:23 John said, “I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’ just as the prophet Isaiah said.”" 
John1:24 Now those who were sent were from the Pharisees. 
John1:25 They asked him, “Why do you baptize then, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?”" 
John1:26 John answered them, “I baptize with water, but One stands among you, whom you do not know." 
John1:27 This is He who comes after me, who is preferred before me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.”" 
John1:28 These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing." 
John1:29 The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!" 
John1:30 This is He of whom I said, ‘After me comes a Man who is preferred before me, for He was before me.’" 
John1:31 I did not know Him, but for this reason I came baptizing with water: so that He might be revealed to Israel.”" 
John1:32 Then John bore witness, saying, “I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it remained on Him." 
John1:33 I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize with water said to me, ‘The One on whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining, this is He who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.’" 
John1:34 I have seen and have borne witness that He is the Son of God.” 
John1:35 Again, the next day John was standing with two of his disciples." 
John1:36 Looking upon Jesus as He walked, he said, “Behold, the Lamb of God!”" 
John1:37 The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus." 
John1:38 Then Jesus turned, saw them following, and said to them, “What do you seek?” And they said to Him, “Rabbi” (which means Teacher), “where are You staying?”" 
John1:39 Jesus said to them, “Come and see.” So they came and saw where He stayed and remained with Him that day, for it was about the tenth hour." 
John1:40 One of the two who heard John speak, and followed Him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother." 
John1:41 He first found his own brother Simon, and said to him, “We have found the Messiah” (which means the Christ)." 
John1:42 Then he brought him to Jesus. When Jesus saw him, He said, “You are Simon the son of John. You shall be called Cephas” (which means Peter)." 
John1:43 The next day Jesus wanted to go to Galilee, and He found Philip, and said to him, “Follow Me.”" 
John1:44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter." 
John1:45 Philip found Nathanael and said to him, “We have found Him of whom Moses in the law, as well as the prophets, wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”" 
John1:46 Nathanael said to him, “Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “Come and see.”" 
John1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him and said concerning him, “Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no deceit!”" 
John1:48 Nathanael said to Him, “How do You know me?” Jesus answered, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.”" 
John1:49 Nathanael answered Him, “Rabbi, You are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!”" 
John1:50 Jesus answered, “Because I said to you, ‘I saw you under the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will see greater things than these.”" 
John1:51 And He said to him, “Truly, truly I say to you, hereafter you shall see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man.”" 
John2:1 On the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee. The mother of Jesus was there. 
John2:2 Both Jesus and His disciples were invited to the wedding. 
John2:3 When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, “They have no wine.”" 
John2:4 Jesus said to her, “Woman, what does this have to do with Me? My hour has not yet come.”" 
John2:5 His mother said to the servants, “Whatever He says to you, do it.”" 
John2:6 Six water pots made of stone were sitting there, used for ceremonial cleansing by the Jews, containing twenty to thirty gallons each." 
John2:7 Jesus said to them, “Fill the water pots with water.” And they filled them up to the brim." 
John2:8 Then He said to them, “Now draw some out, and take it to the master of the feast.” And they took it." 
John2:9 When the master of the feast tasted the water that had been turned into wine, and did not know where it came from (though the servants who drew the water knew), the master of the feast called the bridegroom," 
John2:10 and he said to him, “Every man serves the good wine first, and after men have drunk freely, then the poor wine is served. But you have kept the good wine until now.”" 
John2:11 This, the first of His signs, Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and He revealed His glory, and His disciples believed in Him." 
John2:12 After this He, and His mother, and His brothers, and His disciples went down to Capernaum. They remained there a few days." 
John2:13 The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem." 
John2:14 In the temple He found those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers sitting there." 
John2:15 When He had made a whip of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and oxen. He poured out the changers’ money and overturned the tables." 
John2:16 He said to those who sold doves, “Take these things away! Do not make My Father’s house a house of merchandise!”" 
John2:17 His disciples remembered that it was written, “Zeal for Your house will consume Me.”" 
John2:18 Then the Jews said to Him, “What sign do You show us, seeing that You do these things?”" 
John2:19 Jesus answered them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.”" 
John2:20 Then the Jews said, “It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will You raise it up in three days?”" 
John2:21 But He was speaking concerning the temple of His body. 
John2:22 Therefore, when He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this to them. And they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken." 
John2:23 Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed in His name when they saw the signs which He did." 
John2:24 But Jesus did not entrust Himself to them, because He knew all men," 
John2:25 and did not need anyone to bear witness of man, for He knew what was in man." 
John3:1 There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews." 
John3:2 He came to Jesus by night and said to Him, “Rabbi, we know that You are a teacher who has come from God. For no one can do these signs that You do unless God is with him.”" 
John3:3 Jesus answered him, “Truly, truly I say to you, unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”" 
John3:4 Nicodemus said to Him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born?”" 
John3:5 Jesus answered, “Truly, truly I say to you, unless a man is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God." 
John3:6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit." 
John3:7 Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’" 
John3:8 The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.”" 
John3:9 Nicodemus said to Him, “How can this be?”" 
John3:10 Jesus answered him, “Are you the teacher of Israel, but you do not know these things?" 
John3:11 Truly, truly I say to you, We speak of what We know and bear witness of what We have seen, but you do not receive Our testimony." 
John3:12 If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?" 
John3:13 No one has ascended to heaven except He who descended from heaven, even the Son of Man who is in heaven." 
John3:14 Just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up," 
John3:15 that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but may have eternal life." 
John3:16 “For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." 
John3:17 For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved." 
John3:18 He who believes in Him is not condemned. But he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God." 
John3:19 This is the verdict, that light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." 
John3:20 For everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed." 
John3:21 But he who does the truth comes to the light, that it may be revealed that his deeds have been done in God.”" 
John3:22 After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea. He remained with them there and baptized. 
John3:22 After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea. He remained with them there and baptized. 
John3:23 John also was baptizing in Aenon toward Salim, because much water was there. And people came and were baptized." 
John3:24 For John had not yet been put in prison. 
John3:25 Then a dispute arose between some of John’s disciples and the Jews about ceremonial cleansing. 
John3:26 They came to John and said to him, “Rabbi, He who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look, He is baptizing, and everyone is going to Him.”" 
John3:27 John answered, “A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven." 
John3:28 You yourselves bear witness of me, that I said, ‘I am not the Christ,’ but ‘I have been sent before Him.’" 
John3:29 He who has the bride is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom’s voice. Therefore this joy of mine is fulfilled." 
John3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease.”" 
John3:31 He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is earthly and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. 
John3:32 He bears witness of what He has seen and heard, yet no one receives His testimony." 
John3:33 He who has received His testimony has certified that God is true. 
John3:34 For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God gives the Spirit without measure to Him." 
John3:35 The Father loves the Son, and has placed all things into His hand." 
John3:36 He who believes in the Son has eternal life. He who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him." 
John4:1 Now when the Lord learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John 
John4:2 (though Jesus Himself did not baptize, but His disciples)," 
John4:3 He left Judea and departed again to Galilee. 
John4:3 He left Judea and departed again to Galilee. 
John4:4 Now it was necessary that He go through Samaria. 
John4:5 So He came to a city of Samaria which is called Sychar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph." 
John4:6 Jacob’s well was there. Jesus, therefore, being exhausted from His journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour." 
John4:7 A woman of Samaria came there to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give Me a drink.”" 
John4:8 For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. 
John4:9 Then the woman of Samaria said to Him, “How is it that You, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a woman of Samaria?” For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans." 
John4:10 Jesus answered her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who is saying to you, ‘Give Me a drink,’ you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water.”" 
John4:11 The woman said to Him, “Sir, You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do You get that living water?" 
John4:12 Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, along with his sons and his livestock?”" 
John4:13 Jesus said to her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again," 
John4:14 but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water that I shall give him will become in him a well of water springing up into eternal life.”" 
John4:15 The woman said to Him, “Sir, give me this water, so that I will not thirst, nor come here to draw.”" 
John4:16 Jesus said to her, “Go, call your husband, and come here.”" 
John4:17 The woman answered, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You are right in saying, ‘I have no husband,’" 
John4:18 for you have had five husbands, and he whom you now have is not your husband. So you have spoken truthfully.”" 
John4:19 The woman said to Him, “Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet." 
John4:20 Our fathers worshipped on this mountain, but you all say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.”" 
John4:21 Jesus said to her, “Woman, believe Me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father." 
John4:22 You worship what you do not know; we know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews." 
John4:23 Yet the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father seeks such to worship Him." 
John4:24 God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship Him in spirit and truth.”" 
John4:25 The woman said to Him, “I know that Messiah is coming” (who is called Christ). “When He comes, He will tell us all things.”" 
John4:26 Jesus said to her, “I who speak to you am He.”" 
John4:27 Then His disciples came. They marveled that He talked with a woman. Yet no one said, “What do You seek?” or, “Why are You talking with her?”" 
John4:28 The woman then left her water pot, went her way into the city, and said to the men," 
John4:29 “Come, see a Man who told me all things that I ever did. Could this be the Christ?”" 
John4:30 They went out of the city and came to Him. 
John4:31 Meanwhile His disciples urged Him, saying, “Rabbi, eat.”" 
John4:32 But He said to them, “I have food to eat of which you do not know.”" 
John4:33 Therefore the disciples said one to another, “Has anyone brought Him anything to eat?”" 
John4:34 Jesus said to them, “My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me, and to finish His work." 
John4:35 Do you not say, ‘There are yet four months, and then comes the harvest’? Listen! I say to you, lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest." 
John4:36 He who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit that leads to eternal life, that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together." 
John4:37 For in this is the saying true, ‘One sows, and another reaps.’" 
John4:38 I sent you to reap a crop for which you did not labor. And you have benefited from their labor.” 
John4:39 Many of the Samaritans of that city believed in Him, because of the word of the woman who testified, “He told me all that I ever did.”" 
John4:40 So when the Samaritans came to Him, they asked Him to remain with them. And He stayed there two days." 
John4:41 And many more believed because of His word. 
John4:42 They said to the woman, “Now we believe, not because of what you said, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this Man is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world.”" 
John4:43 After the two days He departed from there and went to Galilee. 
John4:44 For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country. 
John4:45 Then, when He came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed Him, having seen all the things He did at Jerusalem at the feast. For they had also gone to the feast." 
John4:46 So Jesus came again to Cana of Galilee where He had made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick in Capernaum. 
John4:47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him, pleading that He would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death." 
John4:47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him, pleading that He would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death." 
John4:48 Then Jesus said to him, “Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe.”" 
John4:49 The nobleman said to Him, “Sir, come down before my child dies.”" 
John4:50 Jesus said to him, “Go your way. Your son lives.” And the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and he went his way." 
John4:51 While he was going down, his servants met him and told him, “Your son lives!”" 
John4:52 When he inquired of them the hour when he began to heal, they answered, “Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.”" 
John4:53 Then the father knew that it was at the same hour in which Jesus said to him, “Your son lives.” So he and his whole household believed." 
John4:54 This was the second sign that Jesus did when He had come from Judea to Galilee. 
John4:54 This was the second sign that Jesus did when He had come from Judea to Galilee. 
John5:1 After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem." 
John5:2 Now in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate there is a pool, which in Hebrew is called Bethesda, having five porches." 
John5:3 In these lay a great crowd of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water." 
John5:4 For an angel went down at a certain time into the pool and stirred up the water. After the stirring of the water, whoever stepped in first was healed of whatever disease he had." 
John5:5 A certain man was there who had an illness for thirty-eight years. 
John5:6 When Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had been in that condition now a long time, He said to him, “Do you want to be healed?”" 
John5:7 The sick man answered Him, “Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred. But while I am coming, another steps down before me.”" 
John5:8 Jesus said to him, “Rise, take up your bed and walk.”" 
John5:9 Immediately the man was healed, took up his bed, and walked. That day was the Sabbath." 
John5:10 The Jews therefore said to him who was cured, “It is the Sabbath day. It is not lawful for you to carry your bed.”" 
John5:11 He answered them, “He who healed me said to me, ‘Take up your bed and walk.’  ”" 
John5:12 So they asked him, “Who is the Man who said to you, ‘Take up your bed and walk’?”" 
John5:13 Now the man who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in that place." 
John5:14 Afterward Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him, “See, you have become whole. Sin no more lest something worse happens to you.”" 
John5:15 The man departed and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. 
John5:16 So the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill Him, because He had done these things on the Sabbath day." 
John5:17 Jesus answered them, “My Father is working still, and I am working.”" 
John5:18 So the Jews sought even more to kill Him, because He not only had broken the Sabbath, but also said that God was His Father, making Himself equal with God." 
John5:19 Then Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of Himself, but what He sees the Father do. For whatever He does, likewise the Son does." 
John5:20 For the Father loves the Son and shows Him all things that He Himself does. And He will show Him greater works than these so that you may marvel. 
John5:21 For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son gives life to whom He will." 
John5:22 The Father judges no one, but has committed all judgment to the Son," 
John5:23 that all men should honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him." 
John5:24 “Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears My word and believes in Him who sent Me has eternal life and shall not come into condemnation, but has passed from death into life." 
John5:25 Truly, truly I say to you, the hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live." 
John5:26 For as the Father has life in Himself, so He has given to the Son to have life in Himself," 
John5:27 and has given Him authority to execute judgment also, because He is the Son of Man." 
John5:28 “Do not marvel at this. For the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear His voice 
John5:29 and come out—those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment." 
John5:30 I can do nothing of Myself. As I hear, I judge. My judgment is just, because I seek not My own will, but the will of the Father who sent Me." 
John5:31 “If I bear witness of Myself, My testimony is not true." 
John5:32 There is another who bears witness of Me, and I know that the testimony which He bears of Me is true." 
John5:33 “You sent to John, and he bore witness of the truth." 
John5:34 I do not receive testimony from man, but I say these things that you may be saved." 
John5:35 He was a burning and a shining lamp, and you were willing for a season to rejoice in his light." 
John5:36 “I have greater testimony than that of John. The works which the Father has given Me to finish, the very works that I do, bear witness of Me, that the Father has sent Me." 
John5:37 The Father Himself, who has sent Me, has borne witness of Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor seen His form." 
John5:38 You do not have His word abiding in you, for you do not believe the One He has sent." 
John5:39 You search the Scriptures, because you think in them you have eternal life. These are they who bear witness of Me." 
John5:40 Yet you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life. 
John5:41 “I do not receive honor from men. 
John5:42 But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in you." 
John5:43 I have come in My Father’s name, but you do not receive Me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him." 
John5:44 How can you believe, who receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God?" 
John5:45 “Do not think that I shall accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you—Moses, in whom you trust." 
John5:46 For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me, for he wrote of Me." 
John5:47 But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?”" 
John6:1 After these things Jesus went across the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias." 
John6:2 And a great crowd followed Him, because they saw His signs which He did for the sick." 
John6:3 Then Jesus went up on a mountain, and He sat there with His disciples." 
John6:4 Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near." 
John6:5 When Jesus looked up and saw a great crowd coming to Him, He said to Philip, “Where shall we buy bread that these may eat?”" 
John6:6 He said this to test him, for He Himself knew what He would do." 
John6:7 Philip answered Him, “Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for each of them to receive but a little.”" 
John6:8 One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to Him," 
John6:9 “There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two small fish. But what are they among so many?” 
John6:10 Jesus said, “Make the people sit down.” Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, numbering about five thousand." 
John6:11 Jesus then took the loaves, and when He had given thanks, He distributed them to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting down; and likewise, they distributed the fish, as much as they wanted." 
John6:12 When they were filled, He told His disciples, “Collect the fragments that remain, that nothing may be lost.”" 
John6:13 So they collected them and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves which were left over by those who had eaten. 
John6:14 When those men saw the sign which He had done, they then said, “This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world.”" 
John6:15 Therefore, knowing that they would come and take Him by force to make Him king, Jesus departed again to a mountain by Himself alone." 
John6:16 Now when evening came, His disciples went down to the sea." 
John6:17 They got into a boat and went across the sea toward Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not come to them." 
John6:18 The sea was stirred up, because a strong wind was blowing." 
John6:19 So when they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat. And they were afraid." 
John6:20 But He said to them, “It is I. Do not be afraid.”" 
John6:21 Then they gladly received Him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going." 
John6:22 The following day the people who stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, except the one which His disciples had entered, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with His disciples, but that His disciples had gone away alone." 
John6:23 However, other boats came from Tiberias near the place where they ate bread when the Lord had given thanks." 
John6:24 When the people therefore saw that neither Jesus nor His disciples were there, they also got into boats and came to Capernaum, looking for Jesus." 
John6:25 When they found Him on the other side of the sea, they said to Him, “Rabbi, when did You come here?”" 
John6:26 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly I say to you, you seek Me not because you saw signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled." 
John6:27 Do not work for the food which perishes, but for that food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For God the Father has set His seal on Him.”" 
John6:28 Then they asked Him, “What shall we do that we may work the works of God?”" 
John6:29 Jesus answered them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He has sent.”" 
John6:30 Therefore they said to Him, “What sign do You show then, that we may see and believe You? What work will You perform?" 
John6:31 Our fathers ate manna in the desert. As it is written, ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’ ”" 
John6:32 Then Jesus said, “Truly, truly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread from heaven." 
John6:33 For the bread of God is He who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” 
John6:34 Then they said to Him, “Lord, give us this bread always.”" 
John6:35 Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to Me shall never hunger, and whoever believes in Me shall never thirst." 
John6:36 But I told you that you have seen Me, and yet do not believe." 
John6:37 All whom the Father gives Me will come to Me, and he who comes to Me I will never cast out." 
John6:38 For I came down from heaven, not to do My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me." 
John6:39 This is the will of the Father who has sent Me, that of all whom He has given Me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day." 
John6:40 This is the will of Him who sent Me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him may have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.”" 
John6:41 The Jews then murmured about Him, because He said, “I am the bread which came down from heaven.”" 
John6:42 They said, “Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that He says, ‘I have come down from heaven’?”" 
John6:43 Jesus therefore answered them, “Do not murmur among yourselves." 
John6:44 No one can come to Me unless the Father who has sent Me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. 
John6:45 It is written in the Prophets, ‘They shall all be taught by God.’ Therefore everyone who has heard and has learned of the Father comes to Me." 
John6:46 Not that anyone has seen the Father, except He who is from God. He has seen the Father." 
John6:47 Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes in Me has eternal life." 
John6:48 I am the bread of life. 
John6:49 Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness, and they died." 
John6:50 This is the bread which comes down from heaven, that one may eat of it and not die." 
John6:51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. The bread which I shall give for the life of the world is My flesh.”" 
John6:52 The Jews therefore quarreled among themselves, saying, “How can this Man give us His flesh to eat?”" 
John6:53 Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you." 
John6:54 Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. 
John6:55 For My flesh is food indeed, and My blood is drink indeed." 
John6:56 Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood remains in Me, and I in him." 
John6:57 As the living Father sent Me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on Me also will live because of Me." 
John6:58 This is the bread which came down from heaven, not as your fathers ate manna and died. He who eats this bread will live forever.”" 
John6:59 He said these things in the synagogue, as He taught in Capernaum." 
John6:60 When they heard this, many of His disciples said, “This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it?”" 
John6:61 Knowing in Himself that His disciples murmured about it, Jesus said to them, “Does this offend you?" 
John6:62 Then what if you see the Son of Man ascend to where He was before? 
John6:63 It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit and are life. 
John6:64 But there are some of you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray Him." 
John6:65 Then He said, “For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to Me unless it were given him by My Father.”" 
John6:66 From that time many of His disciples went back and walked no more with Him. 
John6:67 So Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you also want to go away?”" 
John6:68 Simon Peter answered Him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life." 
John6:69 We have believed and have come to know that You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.”" 
John6:70 Jesus answered them, “Have I not chosen you, the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil?”" 
John6:71 He spoke of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. For it was he who would betray Him, being one of the twelve." 
John7:1 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee. He would not walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him." 
John7:1 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee. He would not walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him." 
John7:2 Now the Jews’ Feast of Tabernacles was at hand. 
John7:3 His brothers therefore said to Him, “Depart from here and go into Judea, that Your disciples also may see the works that You do." 
John7:3 His brothers therefore said to Him, “Depart from here and go into Judea, that Your disciples also may see the works that You do." 
John7:4 For no one does anything in secret, while he himself seeks to be known openly. If You do these things, reveal Yourself to the world.”" 
John7:5 For even His brothers did not believe in Him. 
John7:6 Therefore Jesus told them, “My time has not yet come, but your time is always fitting." 
John7:7 The world cannot hate you. But it hates Me, because I testify concerning it, that its works are evil." 
John7:8 You go up to this feast. I am not going up to this feast yet, because My time has not yet fully come.”" 
John7:9 Having said these things to them, He remained in Galilee." 
John7:10 However, after His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He also went up, not publicly, but secretly." 
John7:11 Then the Jews looked for Him at the feast, and said, “Where is He?”" 
John7:12 There was much complaining among the people concerning Him. For some said, “He is a good Man.” Others said, “No, He deceives the people.”" 
John7:13 Yet no one spoke openly of Him for fear of the Jews. 
John7:14 Now about the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. 
John7:15 The Jews marveled, saying, “How has this Man become educated, having never been taught?”" 
John7:16 Jesus answered them, “My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me." 
John7:17 If any man desires to do His will, he shall know whether the teaching is from God or whether I speak on My own authority." 
John7:18 He who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory. But He who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him is true, and no unrighteousness is in Him." 
John7:19 Did Moses not give you the law, and yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill Me?”" 
John7:20 The people answered, “You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill You?”" 
John7:21 Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel." 
John7:22 Yet, because Moses gave you circumcision, you circumcise a man on the Sabbath day (although it did not come from Moses, but from the Patriarchs)." 
John7:23 If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath day, so that the Law of Moses should not be broken, are you angry at Me because I completely healed a man on the Sabbath day?" 
John7:24 Do not judge according to appearance, but practice righteous judgment.”" 
John7:25 Then some of them from Jerusalem said, “Is this not He whom they seek to kill?" 
John7:26 Here He is, speaking publicly, and they say nothing to Him. Do the rulers indeed know that this is really the Christ?" 
John7:27 But we know where this Man is from. When the Christ comes, no one will know where He is from.”" 
John7:28 Then Jesus, still teaching in the temple, cried out, “You know Me and you likewise know where I am from. I have not come on My own authority, but He who sent Me is true, whom you do not know." 
John7:29 But I know Him, for I am from Him, and He sent Me.”" 
John7:30 So they tried to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him, because His hour had not yet come." 
John7:31 Still, many of the people believed in Him and said, “When the Christ comes, will He do more signs than these which this Man has done?”" 
John7:32 The Pharisees heard the people murmuring these things concerning Him. So the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to arrest Him. 
John7:33 Then Jesus said to them, “I shall be with you a little while longer, and then I go to Him who sent Me." 
John7:34 You will look for Me and you will not find Me. And where I am, you cannot come.”" 
John7:35 The Jews said among themselves, “Where does He intend to go that we shall not find Him? Does He intend to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?" 
John7:36 What kind of saying is this which He said, ‘You will look for Me and you will not find Me. And where I am, you cannot come’?”" 
John7:37 On the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to Me and drink." 
John7:38 He who believes in Me, as the Scripture has said, out of his heart shall flow rivers of living water.”" 
John7:39 By this He spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believe in Him would receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified." 
John7:40 Therefore when they heard these words, many of the people said, “Truly, this is the Prophet.”" 
John7:41 Others said, “This is the Christ.” But some said, “Will the Christ come out of Galilee?" 
John7:42 Has the Scripture not said that the Christ comes from the seed of David, out of the town of Bethlehem where David was?”" 
John7:43 So there was a division among the people because of Him. 
John7:44 Some of them wanted to arrest Him, but no one laid hands on Him." 
John7:45 Then the officers came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, “Why did you not bring Him?”" 
John7:46 The officers answered, “No man has ever spoken like this Man.”" 
John7:47 Then the Pharisees answered them, “Are you also deceived?" 
John7:48 Have any of the rulers or the Pharisees believed in Him? 
John7:49 Not at all. This crowd who does not know the law is accursed.” 
John7:50 Nicodemus, being one of them who came to Jesus by night, said to them," 
John7:51 “Does our law judge a man before it hears him and knows what he is doing?” 
John7:52 They said to him, “Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee.”" 
John7:53 Then everyone went to his own house. 
John8:1 But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 
John8:2 Early in the morning He returned to the temple. All the people came to Him, and He sat down and taught them." 
John8:3 The scribes and Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery. When they had put her in the middle," 
John8:4 they said to Him, “Teacher, this woman was caught in the very act of adultery." 
John8:5 Now Moses in the law commanded us to stone such, but what do You say?”" 
John8:6 They said this, testing Him, that they might have something of which to accuse Him. But Jesus stooped down and wrote on the ground with His finger, as though He did not hear them." 
John8:7 So when they continued asking Him, He stood up and said to them, “Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.”" 
John8:8 Again He stooped down and wrote on the ground. 
John8:9 Being convicted by their conscience, those who heard it went out one by one, beginning with the eldest even to the last. Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst." 
John8:10 When Jesus had stood up and saw no one but the woman, He said to her, “Woman, where are your accusers? Did no one condemn you?”" 
John8:11 She said, “No one, Lord.” Jesus said to her, “Neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more.”" 
John8:12 Again, Jesus spoke to them, saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows Me shall not walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life.”" 
John8:13 The Pharisees therefore said to Him, “You bear witness of Yourself. Your testimony is not true.”" 
John8:14 Jesus answered, “Though I bear witness of Myself, My testimony is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I came from or where I am going." 
John8:15 You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. 
John8:16 Yet if I do judge, My judgment is true. For I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent Me." 
John8:17 Even in your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true. 
John8:18 I am One who bears witness of Myself, and the Father that sent Me bears witness of Me.”" 
John8:19 Then they said to Him, “Where is Your Father?” Jesus answered, “You know neither Me nor My Father. If you knew Me, you would know My Father also.”" 
John8:20 Jesus spoke these words in the treasury, as He taught in the temple. No one arrested Him, for His hour had not yet come." 
John8:21 Again, Jesus said to them, “I am going away, and you will seek Me, and you will die in your sins. Where I am going, you cannot come.”" 
John8:22 So the Jews said, “Will He kill Himself? For He said, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come.’  ”" 
John8:23 He said to them, “You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world." 
John8:24 Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins.”" 
John8:25 They said to Him, “Who are You?” Jesus said to them, “Just who I have been telling you from the beginning." 
John8:26 I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true. So I tell the world what I heard from Him.”" 
John8:27 They did not understand that He spoke to them of the Father. 
John8:28 So Jesus said to them, “When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and I do nothing of Myself. But I speak these things as My Father taught Me." 
John8:29 He who sent Me is with Me. The Father has not left Me alone, for I always do those things that please Him.”" 
John8:30 As He spoke these words, many believed in Him." 
John8:31 Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed Him, “If you remain in My word, then you are truly My disciples." 
John8:32 You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.”" 
John8:33 They answered Him, “We are Abraham’s seed and have never been in bondage to anyone. Why do You say, ‘You shall be set free’?”" 
John8:34 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin." 
John8:35 Now a slave does not remain in the house forever, but a son remains forever." 
John8:36 Therefore if the Son sets you free, you shall be free indeed." 
John8:37 I know that you are Abraham’s seed. But you seek to kill Me, because My word has no place in you." 
John8:38 I am telling what I have seen with My Father, and you are doing what you have seen with your father.”" 
John8:39 They answered Him, “Abraham is our father.” Jesus said to them, “If you were Abraham’s children, you would do the works of Abraham." 
John8:40 But now you seek to kill Me, a Man who has told you the truth which I heard from God. Abraham did not do this." 
John8:41 You are doing the works of your father.” Then they said to Him, “We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father: God.”" 
John8:42 Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love Me, for I came from God and proceeded into the world. I did not come of My own authority, but He sent Me." 
John8:43 Why do you not understand My speaking? Because you cannot bear to hear My word. 
John8:44 You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies." 
John8:45 Yet because I tell the truth, you do not believe Me." 
John8:46 Which of you convicts Me of sin? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe Me?" 
John8:47 He who is of God hears God’s words. Therefore, you do not hear them, because you are not of God.”" 
John8:48 The Jews answered Him, “Do we not rightly say that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?”" 
John8:49 Jesus answered, “I do not have a demon. But I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me." 
John8:50 I do not seek glory for Myself. There is One who seeks it and judges. 
John8:51 Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps My word, he shall never see death.”" 
John8:52 Then the Jews said to Him, “Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham and the prophets died, and You say, ‘If a man keeps My word, he shall never taste death.’" 
John8:53 Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets are dead! Who do You make Yourself out to be?”" 
John8:54 Jesus answered, “If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing. It is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say that He is your God." 
John8:55 Yet you have not known Him, but I know Him. If I say, ‘I do not know Him,’ I shall be a liar like you. But I know Him and keep His word." 
John8:56 Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day. He saw it and was glad.” 
John8:57 Then the Jews said to Him, “You are not yet fifty years old. Have You seen Abraham?”" 
John8:58 Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was born, I AM.”" 
John8:59 Then they took up stones to throw at Him. But Jesus hid Himself and went out of the temple. Going through their midst, He passed by." 
John9:1 As Jesus passed by, He saw a man blind from birth." 
John9:2 His disciples asked Him, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?”" 
John9:3 Jesus answered, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned. But it happened so that the works of God might be displayed in him." 
John9:4 I must do the works of Him who sent Me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. 
John9:5 While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.”" 
John9:6 When He had said this, He spit on the ground and made clay with the saliva. He anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay," 
John9:7 and said to him, “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means “Sent”). So he went away and washed, and returned seeing." 
John9:8 The neighbors and those who had previously seen that he was blind said, “Is this not he who sat and begged?”" 
John9:9 Some said, “This is he.” Others said, “He is like him.” But he said, “I am he.”" 
John9:10 So they said to him, “How were your eyes opened?”" 
John9:11 He answered, “A Man called Jesus made clay, anointed my eyes, and said to me, ‘Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.’ So I went away and washed, and I received my sight.”" 
John9:12 They said to him, “Where is He?” He said, “I do not know.”" 
John9:13 They brought the man who had been blind to the Pharisees. 
John9:14 Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. 
John9:15 Therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, “He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.”" 
John9:16 Some of the Pharisees said, “This Man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath day.” Others said, “How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?” So there was division among them." 
John9:17 Then they said to the blind man again, “What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes?” He said, “He is a prophet.”" 
John9:18 But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind and received his sight, until they called the parents of the one who had received his sight." 
John9:19 They asked them, “Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How then does he now see?”" 
John9:20 His parents answered, “We know that this is our son and that he was born blind." 
John9:21 But how he now sees, we do not know, or who opened his eyes, we do not know. He is of age. Ask him. He will speak for himself.”" 
John9:22 His parents said this, because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed that He was the Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue." 
John9:23 Therefore his parents said, “He is of age. Ask him.”" 
John9:24 So again they called the man who was blind and said to him, “Give glory to God. We know that this Man is a sinner.”" 
John9:25 He said, “I do not know if He is a sinner. I know one thing: I was blind, but now I see.”" 
John9:26 Then they said to him again, “What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?”" 
John9:27 He answered them, “I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?”" 
John9:28 Then they insulted him and said, “You are His disciple, but we are Moses’ disciples." 
John9:29 We know that God has spoken to Moses. As for this fellow, we do not know where He is from.”" 
John9:30 The man answered, “Well, here is an amazing thing! You do not know where He is from, and yet He opened my eyes." 
John9:31 We know that God does not listen to sinners. But if anyone is a worshipper of God and does His will, He hears him." 
John9:32 Since the world began, it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind." 
John9:33 If this Man were not from God, He could do nothing.”" 
John9:34 They answered him, “You were completely born in sin. Are you teaching us?” And they threw him out." 
John9:35 Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and when He found him, He said, “Do you believe in the Son of God?”" 
John9:36 He answered, “Who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?”" 
John9:37 Jesus said to him, “You have seen Him, and it is He who speaks with you.”" 
John9:38 Then he said, “Lord, I believe.” And he worshipped Him." 
John9:39 Jesus said, “I came into this world for judgment, that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind.”" 
John9:40 Some Pharisees who were with Him heard these words, and said to Him, “Are we also blind?”" 
John9:41 Jesus said, “If you were blind, you would have no sin. But now you say, ‘We see.’ Therefore your sin remains." 
John10:1 “Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter by the door into the sheepfold, but climbs up some other way, is a thief and a robber." 
John10:2 But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
John10:3 To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and he leads them out." 
John10:4 When he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them. And the sheep follow him, for they know his voice." 
John10:5 Yet they will never follow a stranger, but will run away from him. For they do not know the voice of strangers.”" 
John10:6 Jesus told them this parable, but they did not understand what He was telling them." 
John10:7 Then Jesus said to them again, “Truly, truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep." 
John10:8 All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them." 
John10:9 I am the door. If anyone enters through Me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture." 
John10:10 The thief does not come, except to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly." 
John10:11 “I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep. 
John10:12 But he who is a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep, and runs away. So the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them." 
John10:13 The hired hand runs away because he is a hired hand, and does not care about the sheep." 
John10:14 “I am the good shepherd. I know My sheep and am known by My own. 
John10:15 Even as the Father knows Me, so I know the Father. And I lay down My life for the sheep." 
John10:16 I have other sheep who are not of this fold. I must also bring them, and they will hear My voice. There will be one flock and one shepherd." 
John10:17 Therefore My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it up again." 
John10:18 No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down Myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again. I received this command from My Father.”" 
John10:19 Therefore there was a division again among the Jews because of these sayings. 
John10:20 Many of them said, “He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to Him?”" 
John10:21 Others said, “These are not the words of one who has a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?”" 
John10:22 The Feast of the Dedication was at Jerusalem, and it was winter." 
John10:23 Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon’s Porch. 
John10:24 Then the Jews surrounded Him, saying, “How long will You keep us in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly.”" 
John10:25 Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you did not believe. The works that I do in My Father’s name bear witness of Me." 
John10:26 But you do not believe, because you are not of My sheep, as I said to you." 
John10:27 My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me." 
John10:28 I give them eternal life. They shall never perish, nor shall anyone snatch them from My hand." 
John10:29 My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them from My Father’s hand." 
John10:30 My Father and I are one.” 
John10:31 Again the Jews took up stones to stone Him. 
John10:32 Jesus answered them, “I have shown you many good works from My Father. For which of those works do you stone Me?”" 
John10:33 The Jews answered Him, “We are not stoning You for a good work, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a Man, claim to be God.”" 
John10:34 Jesus answered them, “Is it not written in your law, ‘I said, “You are gods” ’?" 
John10:35 If He called them ‘gods,’ to whom the word of God came, and the Scripture cannot be broken," 
John10:36 do you say of Him, whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You blaspheme,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’?" 
John10:37 If I am not doing the works of My Father, do not believe Me." 
John10:38 But if I do them, though you do not believe Me, believe the works, that you may know and believe that the Father is in Me, and I in Him.”" 
John10:39 Again they tried to seize Him, but He escaped from their hands." 
John10:40 Then He went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was baptizing at first, and He remained there." 
John10:41 Many came to Him and said, “John did no sign. But everything that John said about this Man was true.”" 
John10:42 And many believed in Him there. 
John11:1 Now a man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha." 
John11:2 This was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick." 
John11:3 So the sisters sent word to Him, saying, “Lord, he whom You love is sick.”" 
John11:4 When Jesus heard this, He said, “This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified by it.”" 
John11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus." 
John11:6 So when He heard that he was sick, He remained where He was two more days." 
John11:7 Then after this He said to the disciples, “Let us go into Judea again.”" 
John11:7 Then after this He said to the disciples, “Let us go into Judea again.”" 
John11:8 His disciples said to Him, “Rabbi, the Jews were just trying to stone You. Are You going there again?”" 
John11:9 Jesus answered, “Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks during the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world." 
John11:10 But if anyone walks during the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.”" 
John11:11 After He said this, He said to them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep. But I am going that I may awaken him from sleep.”" 
John11:12 Then His disciples said, “Lord, if he is sleeping, he will be well.”" 
John11:13 Jesus had spoken of his death. But they thought that He was speaking of getting rest through sleep. 
John11:14 So then Jesus plainly told them, “Lazarus is dead." 
John11:15 And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. Nevertheless let us go to him.”" 
John11:16 Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, “Let us go also, that we may die with Him.”" 
John11:17 When Jesus arrived, He found that he had been in the tomb four days already." 
John11:18 Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, less than two miles away." 
John11:19 Many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother." 
John11:20 When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met Him, but Mary remained in the house." 
John11:21 Martha said to Jesus, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died." 
John11:22 But even now I know that whatever You may ask of God, God will give You.”" 
John11:23 Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”" 
John11:24 Martha said to Him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day.”" 
John11:25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in Me, though he may die, yet shall he live." 
John11:26 And whoever lives and believes in Me shall never die. Do you believe this?” 
John11:27 She said to Him, “Yes, Lord, I believe that You are the Christ, the Son of God, who is to come into the world.”" 
John11:28 When she had said this, she went her way and secretly called her sister Mary, saying, “The Teacher has come and is calling for you.”" 
John11:29 When she heard this, she rose quickly and went to Him." 
John11:30 Now Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was in the place where Martha met Him." 
John11:31 When the Jews who were with Mary in the house, comforting her, saw that she quickly rose up and went out, they followed her, saying, “She is going to the tomb to weep there.”" 
John11:32 When Mary came to where Jesus was, and saw Him, she fell down at His feet, saying to Him, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.”" 
John11:33 When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her weeping, He groaned in the spirit and was troubled." 
John11:34 He said, “Where have you laid him?” They said to Him, “Lord, come and see.”" 
John11:35 Jesus wept. 
John11:36 Then the Jews said, “See how He loved him.”" 
John11:37 But some of them said, “Could not this Man, who opened the eyes of the blind man, have also kept this man from dying?”" 
John11:38 Then Jesus, again groaning within Himself, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone was lying against it." 
John11:39 Jesus said, “Take away the stone.” Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to Him, “Lord, by this time there is a stench, for he has been dead four days.”" 
John11:40 Jesus said to her, “Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God?”" 
John11:41 So they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying. Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, “Father, I thank You that You have heard Me." 
John11:42 I know that You always hear Me. But because of the people standing around, I said this, that they may believe that You sent Me.”" 
John11:43 When He had said this, He cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out!”" 
John11:44 He who was dead came out, his hands and feet wrapped with grave clothes, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Unbind him, and let him go.”" 
John11:45 Therefore many of the Jews who came to Mary, and saw what Jesus had done, believed in Him." 
John11:46 But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. 
John11:47 Then the chief priests and the Pharisees assembled the Sanhedrin and said, “What shall we do? This Man is performing many signs." 
John11:48 If we leave Him alone like this, everyone will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our temple and our nation.”" 
John11:48 If we leave Him alone like this, everyone will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our temple and our nation.”" 
John11:49 Then one of them named Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year, said to them, “You know nothing at all," 
John11:50 nor do you consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, that the whole nation should not perish.”" 
John11:51 He did not say this on his own authority. But being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation," 
John11:52 and not for the nation only, but that He might also gather together in unity the children of God who were scattered abroad." 
John11:53 So from that day forward they planned to put Him to death. 
John11:54 Therefore Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went away from there to the country near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and remained there with His disciples." 
John11:55 Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand. Many went up to Jerusalem from the country before the Passover to purify themselves. 
John11:56 Then they searched for Jesus and said among themselves as they stood in the temple, “What do you think, that He will not come to the feast?”" 
John11:57 Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was, he should report it, that they might seize Him." 
John12:1 Six days before the Passover Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom He had raised from the dead." 
John12:2 They prepared a supper for Him there. Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with Him." 
John12:3 Then Mary took a pint of very costly ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment." 
John12:4 But one of His disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, who would betray Him, said," 
John12:5 “Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?” 
John12:6 He said this, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief. And having the money box, he used to steal what was put in it." 
John12:7 But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. She has kept this for the day of My burial." 
John12:8 For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have Me.”" 
John12:9 When many of the Jews learned that He was there, they came, not for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead." 
John12:10 So the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death also," 
John12:11 because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. 
John12:12 On the next day a great crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. 
John12:13 They took branches of palm trees, and went out to meet Him, and cried out: “Hosanna! ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’ The King of Israel!”" 
John12:14 Then Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it. As it is written:" 
John12:15 “Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King is coming, sitting on a donkey’s colt.”" 
John12:16 His disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that these things were written about Him and that they had done these things to Him." 
John12:17 Now the crowd that was with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness. 
John12:18 The crowd went and met Him for this reason: They heard that He had performed this sign. 
John12:19 So the Pharisees said among themselves, “See, you are gaining nothing! Look, the world has followed Him!”" 
John12:20 Now there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast. 
John12:21 They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, “Sir, we want to see Jesus.”" 
John12:22 Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus." 
John12:23 Jesus answered them, “The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified." 
John12:24 Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit." 
John12:25 He who loves his life will lose it. And he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. 
John12:26 If anyone serves Me, he must follow Me. Where I am, there will My servant be also. If anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him." 
John12:27 “Now My soul is troubled. What shall I say? ‘Father, save Me from this hour’? Instead, for this reason I came to this hour." 
John12:28 Father, glorify Your name.” Then a voice came from heaven, saying, “I have glorified it, and will glorify it again.”" 
John12:29 The crowd that stood by and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, “An angel has spoken to Him.”" 
John12:30 Jesus answered, “This voice came not for My sake, but for your sakes." 
John12:31 Now judgment is upon this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. 
John12:32 And if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men to Myself.”" 
John12:33 He said this to signify by what kind of death He would die. 
John12:34 The crowd answered Him, “We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. Why do You say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this Son of Man?”" 
John12:35 Then Jesus said to them, “Yet a little while the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. He who walks in darkness does not know where he is going." 
John12:36 While you have light, believe in the light that you may become sons of light.” Jesus said these things, and departed and hid Himself from them." 
John12:37 Though He had done so many signs before them, yet they did not believe in Him." 
John12:38 This fulfilled the word spoken by Isaiah the prophet: “Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”" 
John12:39 Therefore they could not believe. For Isaiah said again: 
John12:40 “He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes and perceive with their hearts and turn, and I would heal them.”" 
John12:41 Isaiah said this when he saw His glory and spoke of Him. 
John12:42 Yet many of the rulers also believed in Him. But because of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, lest they be put out of the synagogue." 
John12:43 For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. 
John12:44 Jesus cried out, “He who believes in Me believes not only in Me, but in Him who sent Me." 
John12:45 He who sees Me sees Him who sent Me. 
John12:46 I have come as a light into the world, that whoever believes in Me should not remain in darkness." 
John12:47 “If anyone hears My words and does not believe, I do not judge him. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world." 
John12:48 He who rejects Me, and does not receive My words, has that which judges him. The word I have spoken will judge him on the last day." 
John12:49 For I have not spoken on My own authority, but the Father who sent Me gave Me a command, what I should say and what I should speak." 
John12:50 I know that His command is eternal life. Therefore what I say, I say as the Father tells me.”" 
John13:1 Now before the Passover Feast, Jesus knew that His hour had come to depart from this world to the Father. Having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the end." 
John13:2 Now supper being concluded, the devil had put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray Him." 
John13:3 Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into His hands and that He came from God and was going to God," 
John13:4 rose from supper, laid aside His garments, and took a towel and wrapped Himself." 
John13:5 After that, He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet and to wipe them with the towel with which He was wrapped." 
John13:6 Then He came to Simon Peter, and Peter said to Him, “Lord, are You washing my feet?”" 
John13:7 Jesus answered him, “You do not understand what I am doing now. But later you will understand.”" 
John13:8 Peter said to Him, “You shall never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you have no part with Me.”" 
John13:9 Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!”" 
John13:10 Jesus said to him, “He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you.”" 
John13:11 For He knew who would betray Him. Therefore He said, “Not all of you are clean.”" 
John13:12 So when He had washed their feet, and put on His garments, and sat down again, He said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you?" 
John13:13 You call Me Teacher and Lord. You speak accurately, for so I am." 
John13:14 If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet." 
John13:15 For I have given you an example, that you should do as I have done to you." 
John13:16 Truly, truly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him." 
John13:17 If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them." 
John13:18 “I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with Me has lifted up his heel against Me.’" 
John13:19 “Now I tell you before it happens, that when it does happen, you may believe that I am He." 
John13:20 Truly, truly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives Me. And he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.”" 
John13:21 When Jesus had said this, He was troubled in spirit, and testified, “Truly, truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me.”" 
John13:22 The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom He spoke." 
John13:23 Now there was leaning to the right of Jesus one of His disciples whom Jesus loved. 
John13:24 Therefore Simon Peter motioned to him to ask who it was of whom He spoke. 
John13:25 Leaning back against Jesus’ chest, he said to Him, “Lord, who is it?”" 
John13:26 Jesus answered, “It is he to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it.” When He had dipped the bread, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon." 
John13:27 After receiving the piece of bread, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him, “What you are going to do, do quickly.”" 
John13:28 But no one at the table knew why He said this to him. 
John13:29 Since Judas had the moneybox, some thought that Jesus said to him, “Buy what we need for the feast,” or that he should give something to the poor." 
John13:30 Having received the piece of bread, he then left immediately. And it was night." 
John13:31 When he had gone out, Jesus then said, “Now is the Son of Man glorified, and in Him God is glorified." 
John13:32 If God is glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself and will immediately glorify Him." 
John13:33 “Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek Me. And as I said to the Jews, so now I tell you, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come.’" 
John13:34 “A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another." 
John13:35 By this all men will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.”" 
John13:36 Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, where are You going?” Jesus answered him, “Where I am going, you cannot follow Me now. But you shall follow Me afterward.”" 
John13:37 Peter said to Him, “Lord, why can I not follow You now? I will lay down my life for Your sake.”" 
John13:38 Jesus answered Him, “Will you lay down your life for My sake? Truly, truly I say to you, the cock shall not crow until you have denied Me three times." 
John14:1 “Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in Me. 
John14:2 In My Father’s house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you." 
John14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself, that where I am, you may be also." 
John14:4 You know where I am going, and you know the way.”" 
John14:5 Thomas said to Him, “Lord, we do not know where You are going. How can we know the way?”" 
John14:6 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me." 
John14:7 If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also. From now on you do know Him and have seen Him.”" 
John14:8 Philip said to Him, “Lord, show us the Father, and that is sufficient for us.”" 
John14:9 Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you such a long time, and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father. So how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?" 
John14:10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on My own authority. But the Father who lives in Me does the works. 
John14:11 Believe Me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in Me. Or else believe Me on account of the works themselves." 
John14:12 Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes in Me will do the works that I do also. And he will do greater works than these, because I am going to My Father." 
John14:13 I will do whatever you ask in My name, that the Father may be glorified in the Son." 
John14:14 If you ask anything in My name, I will do it." 
John14:15 “If you love Me, keep My commandments." 
John14:16 I will pray the Father, and He will give you another Advocate, that He may be with you forever:" 
John14:17 the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, for it does not see Him, neither does it know Him. But you know Him, for He lives with you, and will be in you." 
John14:18 I will not leave you fatherless. I will come to you. 
John14:19 Yet a little while and the world will see Me no more. But you will see Me. Because I live, you will live also." 
John14:20 On that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you are in Me, and I am in you." 
John14:21 He who has My commandments and keeps them is the one who loves Me. And he who loves Me will be loved by My Father. And I will love him and will reveal Myself to him.” 
John14:22 Then Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, “Lord, how is it that You will reveal Yourself to us, but not to the world?”" 
John14:23 Jesus answered him, “If a man loves Me, he will keep My word. My Father will love him, and We will come to him, and make Our home with him." 
John14:24 He who does not love Me does not keep My words. The word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father’s who sent Me." 
John14:25 “I have spoken these things to you while I am still with you. 
John14:26 But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, will teach you everything and remind you of all that I told you." 
John14:27 Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." 
John14:28 “You have heard Me say to you, ‘I am going away and am returning to you.’ If you loved Me, you would rejoice, because I said, ‘I am going to the Father,’ for My Father is greater than I." 
John14:29 Now I have told you before it happens so that, when it happens, you may believe." 
John14:30 After this I will not speak much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no power over Me." 
John14:31 But I do as the Father has commanded Me so that the world may know that I love the Father. “Rise, let us go from here." 
John15:1 “I am the true vine, and My Father is the vinedresser." 
John15:2 Every branch in Me that bears no fruit, He takes away. And every branch that bears fruit, He prunes, that it may bear more fruit." 
John15:3 You are already clean through the word which I have spoken to you. 
John15:4 Remain in Me, as I also remain in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it remains in the vine, neither can you, unless you remain in Me." 
John15:5 “I am the vine, you are the branches. He who remains in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit. For without Me you can do nothing." 
John15:6 If a man does not remain in Me, he is thrown out as a branch and withers. And they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned." 
John15:7 If you remain in Me, and My words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it shall be done for you." 
John15:8 My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit; so you will be My disciples." 
John15:9 “As the Father loved Me, I also loved you. Remain in My love." 
John15:10 If you keep My commandments, you will remain in My love, even as I have kept My Father’s commandments and remain in His love." 
John15:11 I have spoken these things to you, that My joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full." 
John15:12 This is My commandment: that you love one another, as I have loved you." 
John15:13 Greater love has no man than this: that a man lay down his life for his friends. 
John15:14 You are My friends if you do whatever I command you. 
John15:15 I no longer call you servants, for a servant does not know what his master does. But I have called you friends, for everything that I have heard from My Father have I made known to you." 
John15:16 You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain, that the Father may give you whatever you ask Him in My name." 
John15:17 This I command you: that you love one another. 
John15:18 “If the world hates you, you know that it hated Me before it hated you." 
John15:19 If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, since I chose you out of the world, the world therefore hates you." 
John15:20 Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A servant is not greater than his master.’ If they persecuted Me, they will also persecute you. If they kept My words, they will keep yours also." 
John15:21 But all these things they will do to you for My name’s sake, because they do not know Him who sent Me." 
John15:22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have had sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin." 
John15:23 He who hates Me hates My Father also. 
John15:24 If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would have no sin. But now have they seen and hated both My Father and Me." 
John15:25 But that the word which is written in their law might be fulfilled, ‘They hated Me without a cause.’" 
John15:26 “But when the Advocate comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will bear witness of Me." 
John15:27 And you also will bear witness, because you have been with Me from the beginning." 
John16:1 “I have spoken these things to you so that you will not fall away. 
John16:2 They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he is offering a service to God." 
John16:3 They will do these things to you, because they have not known the Father nor Me." 
John16:4 I have told you these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you about them. “I did not tell you these things at the beginning, because I was with you." 
John16:5 But now I am going to Him who sent Me, and none of you asks Me, ‘Where are You going?’" 
John16:6 Rather, sorrow has filled your heart, because I have told you these things." 
John16:7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away. For if I do not go away, the Advocate will not come to you. But if I go, I will send Him to you." 
John16:8 When He comes, He will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment:" 
John16:9 of sin, because they do not believe in Me;" 
John16:10 of righteousness, because I am going to My Father, and you will see Me no more;" 
John16:11 and of judgment, because the ruler of this world stands condemned." 
John16:12 “I have yet many things to tell you, but you cannot bear them now." 
John16:13 But when the Spirit of truth comes, He will guide you into all truth. For He will not speak on His own authority. But He will speak whatever He hears, and He will tell you things that are to come." 
John16:14 He will glorify Me, for He will receive from Me and will declare it to you." 
John16:15 All that the Father has is Mine. Therefore I said that He will take what is Mine and will declare it to you. 
John16:16 “In a little while you will not see Me. And then after a little while you will see Me, because I am going to the Father.”" 
John16:17 Then some of His disciples said among themselves, “What is this He is telling us: ‘In a little while you will not see Me; and then after a little while you will see Me,’ and, ‘because I am going to the Father’?”" 
John16:18 Then they said, “What is this He is telling us: ‘In a little while’? We do not know what He is saying.”" 
John16:19 Then Jesus knew that they wanted to ask Him. So He said to them, “Do you inquire among yourselves concerning what I said: ‘In a little while you will not see Me; and then after a little while you will see Me’?" 
John16:20 Truly, truly I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy." 
John16:21 When a woman is giving birth, she has pain, because her hour has come. But as soon as she delivers the child, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a child is born into the world." 
John16:22 Therefore you now have sorrow. But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you." 
John16:23 On that day you will ask Me nothing. Truly, truly I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in My name, He will give it to you." 
John16:24 Until now you have asked nothing in My name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full." 
John16:25 “I have told you these things in proverbs. But the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in proverbs, for I will speak to you plainly about the Father." 
John16:26 On that day you will ask in My name. I am not saying to you that I shall ask the Father on your behalf. 
John16:27 For the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me, and have believed that I came from God." 
John16:28 I came from the Father and have come into the world. As I said, I am leaving the world and am going to the Father.”" 
John16:29 His disciples said to Him, “Yes! Now You are speaking plainly and with no figure of speech." 
John16:30 Now we know that You know everything and do not need anyone to question You. By this we believe that You came from God.” 
John16:31 Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?" 
John16:32 Behold, the hour is coming. Yes, it has now come that you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave Me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with Me." 
John16:33 “I have told you these things so that in Me you may have peace. In the world you will have distress. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world.” 
John17:1 When Jesus spoke these words, He lifted His eyes toward heaven and said: “Father, the hour has come. Glorify Your Son, that Your Son may also glorify You." 
John17:2 As You have given Him authority over all flesh, He will give eternal life to all whom You have given Him." 
John17:3 This is eternal life: that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom You have sent." 
John17:4 I have glorified You on the earth. I have finished the work You have given Me to do. 
John17:5 And now, O Father, glorify Me in Your own presence with the glory which I had with You before the world existed." 
John17:6 “I have revealed Your name to the men whom You have given Me out of the world. They were Yours, and You gave them to Me, and they have kept Your word." 
John17:7 Now they know that all things You have given Me are from You. 
John17:8 For I have given them the words which You gave Me. They have received them and certainly know that I came from You, and they have believed that You sent Me." 
John17:9 I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom You have given Me. For they are Yours." 
John17:10 All that are Mine are Yours, and all that are Yours are Mine. And I am glorified in them." 
John17:11 I am to be no longer in the world, though these are in the world, for I am coming to You. Holy Father, through Your name keep those whom You have given Me, that they may be one as We are one." 
John17:12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in Your name. I have kept those whom You have given Me. And none of them is lost except the son of perdition, that the Scripture might be fulfilled." 
John17:13 “But now I am coming to You, and I say these things in the world, that they may have My joy fulfilled in themselves." 
John17:14 I have given them Your word. And the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world." 
John17:15 I do not pray that You should take them out of the world, but that You should keep them from the evil one." 
John17:16 They are not of the world even as I am not of the world. 
John17:17 Sanctify them by Your truth. Your word is truth. 
John17:18 As You sent Me into the world, so I sent them into the world." 
John17:19 For their sakes I sanctify Myself, that they also may be sanctified by the truth." 
John17:20 “I do not pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in Me through their word," 
John17:21 that they may all be one, as You, Father, are in Me, and I in You. May they also be one in Us, that the world may believe that You have sent Me." 
John17:22 I have given them the glory which You gave Me, that they may be one even as We are one:" 
John17:23 I in them and You in Me, that they may be perfect in unity, and that the world may know that You have sent Me, and have loved them as You have loved Me." 
John17:24 “Father, I desire that they also, whom You have given Me, be with Me where I am, that they may see My glory which You have given Me. For You loved Me before the creation of the world." 
John17:25 “O righteous Father, the world has not known You, but I have known You, and these have known that You sent Me." 
John17:26 I have declared Your name to them, and will declare it, that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them.”" 
John18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, He went out with His disciples across the Kidron Valley. There was a garden which He and His disciples entered." 
John18:2 Now Judas, who betrayed Him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with His disciples." 
John18:3 So Judas, having taken a detachment of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons." 
John18:4 Jesus therefore, knowing everything that would happen to Him, went forward and said to them, “Whom do you seek?”" 
John18:5 They answered Him, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said to them, “I am He.” And Judas, who betrayed Him, was standing with them." 
John18:6 When He said, “I am He,” they drew back and fell to the ground." 
John18:7 Again Jesus asked them, “Whom do you seek?” They said, “Jesus of Nazareth.”" 
John18:8 Jesus answered, “I told you that I am He. So then let these go their way if you are looking for Me.”" 
John18:9 This was to fulfill the word which He had spoken, “I have lost none of those whom You have given Me.”" 
John18:10 Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was Malchus." 
John18:11 Then Jesus said to Peter, “Put your sword into the sheath. Shall I not drink the cup which My Father has given Me?”" 
John18:12 Then the detachment of soldiers and the commander and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound Him. 
John18:13 First they led Him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year." 
John18:14 Now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. 
John18:15 Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. That disciple was known to the high priest and went with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest." 
John18:16 But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper and brought Peter in." 
John18:17 Then the servant girl, being the doorkeeper, said to Peter, “Are you not also one of this Man’s disciples?” He said, “I am not.”" 
John18:18 Now the servants and officers stood there and warmed themselves, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold. Peter also stood with them and warmed himself." 
John18:19 The high priest then asked Jesus about His disciples and His teaching. 
John18:20 Jesus answered him, “I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where the Jews always meet, and I said nothing in secret." 
John18:21 Why do you ask Me? Ask those who heard Me and what I have said to them. Certainly they know what I said.” 
John18:22 When He had said this, one of the officers who stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, “Is that how You answer the high priest?”" 
John18:23 Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil, but if well, why do you strike me?”" 
John18:24 Then Annas sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. 
John18:25 Meanwhile Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, “Are you not also one of His disciples?” He denied it and said, “I am not!”" 
John18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, being a relative of the man whose ear Peter cut off, said, “Did I not see you in the garden with Him?”" 
John18:27 Peter then denied it again, and immediately a cock crowed." 
John18:28 Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the Praetorium. It was early. Yet they themselves did not enter the Praetorium, so that they might not be defiled, but might eat the Passover." 
John18:29 Pilate then went out to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this Man?”" 
John18:30 They answered him, “If He were not an evildoer, we would not have handed Him over to you.”" 
John18:31 Then Pilate said, “Take Him and judge Him according to your law.” The Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death,”" 
John18:32 that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled which He spoke, signifying what death He would die." 
John18:33 Again Pilate entered the Praetorium, called Jesus, and said to Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?”" 
John18:34 Jesus answered him, “Are you speaking of your own accord, or did others tell you about Me?”" 
John18:35 Pilate answered, “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests handed You over to me. What have You done?”" 
John18:36 Jesus answered, “My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, then My servants would fight, that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But now My kingdom is not from here.”" 
John18:37 Therefore Pilate said to Him, “Then are You a king?” Jesus answered, “You say correctly that I am a king. For this reason I was born, and for this reason I came into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice.”" 
John18:38 Pilate said to Him, “What is truth?” When he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them, “I find no guilt in Him at all." 
John18:39 “But you have a custom, that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Do you therefore want me to release to you the King of the Jews?”" 
John18:40 They all shouted again, “Not this Man, but Barabbas!” Now Barabbas was a robber." 
John19:1 Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged Him. 
John19:2 The soldiers twisted a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and they put a purple robe on Him." 
John19:3 They said, “Hail, King of the Jews!” And they hit Him with their hands." 
John19:4 Again Pilate went out and said to them, “Look, I am bringing Him out to you, that you may know that I find no guilt in Him.”" 
John19:5 Then Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, “Behold the Man!”" 
John19:6 When the chief priests and officers saw Him, they cried out, “Crucify Him! Crucify Him!” Pilate said to them, “Take Him yourselves and crucify Him, for I find no guilt in Him.”" 
John19:7 The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and by our law He ought to die, because He made Himself the Son of God!”" 
John19:8 When Pilate heard these words, he was more afraid," 
John19:9 and entered the Praetorium again, and said to Jesus, “Where are You from?” But Jesus gave him no answer." 
John19:10 Pilate said to Him, “Are You not speaking to me? Do You not know that I have power to release You, and power to crucify You?”" 
John19:11 Jesus answered, “You would have no power at all over Me, unless it were given to you from above. Therefore he who handed Me over to you has the greater sin.”" 
John19:12 From then on, Pilate tried to release Him. But the Jews cried out, “If you release this Man, you are not Caesar’s friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar!”" 
John19:13 When Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Pavement (which in Hebrew is Gabbatha)." 
John19:14 It was the Day of Preparation of the Passover and about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, “Behold your King!”" 
John19:15 But they shouted, “Away with Him! Away with Him! Crucify Him!” Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your King?” The chief priests answered, “We have no king but Caesar!”" 
John19:16 Then he handed Him over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and led Him away. 
John19:17 He went out, carrying His own cross, to a place called The Place of a Skull, which in Hebrew is called Golgotha." 
John19:18 There they crucified Him, and two others with Him, one on either side, and Jesus in the middle." 
John19:19 Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross. The writing was: jesus of nazareth***, the king of the jews***." 
John19:20 Many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, and in Latin." 
John19:21 The chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, “Do not write, ‘The King of the Jews,’ but ‘He said, I am King of the Jews.’ ”" 
John19:22 Pilate answered, “What I have written, I have written.”" 
John19:23 When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took His garments and divided them into four parts, a part for each soldier; and also His tunic. Now the tunic was seamless, woven from top to bottom." 
John19:24 So they said to one another, “Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it shall be.” This happened to fulfill the Scripture which says: “They divided My garments among them, and for My clothing they cast lots.” Therefore the soldiers did these things." 
John19:25 But standing by the cross of Jesus were His mother, and His mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene." 
John19:26 When Jesus saw His mother and the disciple whom He loved standing nearby, He said to His mother, “Woman, behold, your son!”" 
John19:27 Then He said to the disciple, “Behold, your mother!” From that time, this disciple took her to his own home." 
John19:28 After this, Jesus, knowing that everything was now accomplished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, “I thirst.”" 
John19:29 A bowl full of sour wine was placed there. So they put a sponge full of sour wine on hyssop and held it to His mouth. 
John19:30 When Jesus had received the sour wine, He said, “It is finished.” And He bowed His head and gave up His spirit." 
John19:31 Since it was the Day of Preparation, to prevent bodies from remaining on the cross on the Sabbath day (for that Sabbath day was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away." 
John19:32 Therefore the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who was crucified with Him. 
John19:33 But when they came to Jesus and saw that He was dead already, they did not break His legs." 
John19:34 However, one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out." 
John19:35 He who saw it has testified, and his testimony is true. He knows that he is telling the truth, that you may believe." 
John19:36 For these things happened so that the Scripture should be fulfilled, “Not one of His bones shall be broken,”" 
John19:37 and again another Scripture says, “They shall look on Him whom they have pierced.”" 
John19:38 After this, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away His body." 
John19:39 Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, weighing about seventy-five pounds." 
John19:40 Then they took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews." 
John19:41 Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden was a new tomb in which no one had ever been buried." 
John19:42 So because of the Jewish Day of Preparation, and since the tomb was nearby, they buried Jesus there." 
John20:1 Early on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb while it was still dark and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb." 
John20:2 So she came running to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have put Him.”" 
John20:3 So Peter came out with the other disciple and they went toward the tomb. 
John20:4 They both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first." 
John20:5 Stooping down and looking in, he saw the linen cloths lying. Yet he did not enter." 
John20:6 Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went inside the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there," 
John20:7 and the cloth that was around His head, not lying with the linen cloths, but wrapped in a place by itself." 
John20:8 Then the other disciple, who came first to the tomb, went in also. He saw and believed." 
John20:9 For as yet they did not know the Scripture, that He must rise from the dead." 
John20:10 Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. 
John20:11 But Mary stood outside at the tomb weeping. As she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb," 
John20:12 and she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet." 
John20:13 They said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” She said to them, “Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have put Him.”" 
John20:14 When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus." 
John20:15 Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?” Supposing Him to be the gardener, she said to Him, “Sir, if You have carried Him away, tell me where You have put Him, and I will take Him away.”" 
John20:16 Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to Him, “Rabboni!” (which means Teacher)." 
John20:17 Jesus said to her, “Stop holding on to Me, for I have not yet ascended to My Father. But go to My brothers and tell them, ‘I am ascending to My Father and your Father, to My God and your God.’ ”" 
John20:18 Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that He had said these things to her. 
John20:19 On the evening of that first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst, and said to them, “Peace be with you.”" 
John20:20 When He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side. The disciples were then glad when they saw the Lord." 
John20:21 So Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. As My Father has sent Me, even so I send you.”" 
John20:22 When He had said this, He breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit." 
John20:23 If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of anyone, they are retained.”" 
John20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came." 
John20:25 So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord!” But he said to them, “Unless I see the nail prints in His hands, and put my finger in the nail prints, and put my hand in His side, I will not believe.”" 
John20:26 After eight days His disciples were again inside with the doors shut, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came and stood among them, and said, “Peace be with you.”" 
John20:27 Then He said to Thomas, “Put your finger here, and look at My hands. Put your hand here and place it in My side. Do not be faithless, but believing.”" 
John20:28 Thomas answered Him, “My Lord and my God!”" 
John20:29 Jesus said to him, “Thomas, because you have seen Me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have yet believed.”" 
John20:30 Jesus performed many other signs in the presence of His disciples, which are not written in this book." 
John20:31 But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in His name." 
John21:1 After this, Jesus revealed Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. He revealed Himself this way:" 
John21:2 Simon Peter; Thomas, called Didymus; Nathanael of Cana in Galilee; the sons of Zebedee; and two more of His disciples were together." 
John21:3 Simon Peter said to them, “I am going fishing.” Then they said to him, “We will go with you.” They went out and immediately entered the boat. But that night they caught nothing." 
John21:4 When the morning came, Jesus stood on the shore. But the disciples did not know that it was Jesus." 
John21:5 Jesus said to them, “Children, do you have any fish?” They answered Him, “No.”" 
John21:6 He said to them, “Throw the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” So they threw it, and now they were not able to draw it in, because of the abundance of fish." 
John21:7 Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he had taken it off, and jumped into the sea." 
John21:8 The other disciples came in the little boat, dragging the net full of fish. For they were not far from land, but about three hundred feet away." 
John21:9 When they came to land, they saw a charcoal fire there with fish lying on it, and bread." 
John21:10 Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish which you have just caught.”" 
John21:11 Simon Peter went up and dragged the net, full of one hundred and fifty-three large fish, to land. Although there were so many, the net was not torn." 
John21:12 Jesus said to them, “Come and eat breakfast.” None of the disciples dared ask, “Who are You?” They knew it was the Lord." 
John21:13 Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and likewise the fish." 
John21:14 This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to His disciples after He was raised from the dead. 
John21:15 So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of John, do you love Me more than these?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord. You know that I love You.” He said to him, “Feed My lambs.”" 
John21:16 He said to him again a second time, “Simon, son of John, do you love Me?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord. You know that I love You.” He said to him, “Tend My sheep.”" 
John21:17 He said to him the third time, “Simon, son of John, do you love Me?” Peter was grieved, because He asked him the third time, “Do you love Me?” He said to Him, “Lord, You know everything. You know that I love You.” Jesus said to him, “Feed My sheep." 
John21:18 Truly, truly I say to you, when you were young, you dressed yourself and walked where you desired. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go.”" 
John21:19 He said this, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. When He had said this, He said to him, “Follow Me.”" 
John21:20 Peter turned and saw following them the disciple whom Jesus loved, who also leaned against His chest at the supper and had said, “Lord, who is it that is going to betray You?”" 
John21:21 When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, “Lord, what about this man?”" 
John21:22 Jesus said to him, “If it is My will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? Follow Me!”" 
John21:23 The saying went out among the brothers that this disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but, “If it is My will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?”" 
John21:24 This is the disciple who testifies about these things, and wrote these things. We know that his testimony is true." 
John21:25 There are also many other things which Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that not even the world itself could contain the books that would be written. Amen." 
Acts1:1 The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, concerning all that Jesus began both to do and teach," 
Acts1:2 until the day when He was taken up, after He had given commandments through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom He had chosen," 
Acts1:3 to whom He presented Himself alive after His suffering by many infallible proofs, appearing to them for forty days, and speaking concerning the kingdom of God." 
Acts1:4 Being assembled with them, He commanded them, “Do not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, of which you have heard from Me." 
Acts1:5 For John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.”" 
Acts1:5 For John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.”" 
Acts1:6 So when they had come together, they asked Him, “Lord, will You at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?”" 
Acts1:7 He said to them, “It is not for you to know the times or the dates, which the Father has fixed by His own authority." 
Acts1:8 But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you shall be My witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.”" 
Acts1:8 But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you shall be My witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.”" 
Acts1:9 When He had spoken these things, while they looked, He was taken up. And a cloud removed Him from their sight." 
Acts1:10 While they looked intently toward heaven as He ascended, behold, two men stood by them in white garments." 
Acts1:11 They said, “Men of Galilee, why stand looking toward heaven? This same Jesus, who was taken up from you to heaven, will come in like manner as you saw Him go into heaven.”" 
Acts1:12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, which is a Sabbath day’s walk from Jerusalem." 
Acts1:13 When they had entered, they went up into the upper room, where they were staying: Peter, James, John, and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot; and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:13 When they had entered, they went up into the upper room, where they were staying: Peter, James, John, and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot; and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:13 When they had entered, they went up into the upper room, where they were staying: Peter, James, John, and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot; and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:13 When they had entered, they went up into the upper room, where they were staying: Peter, James, John, and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot; and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers." 
Acts1:15 In those days Peter stood up among the disciples (the number of people together was about one hundred and twenty), and said," 
Acts1:16 “Brothers, this Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit previously spoke by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became the guide to those who seized Jesus." 
Acts1:17 For he was numbered with us and took part in this ministry.” 
Acts1:18 (Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity. And falling headlong, he burst asunder in the middle and all his organs spilled out." 
Acts1:19 It became known to all the residents of Jerusalem. So this field is called in their dialect Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.)" 
Acts1:20 “For it is written in the Book of Psalms, ‘Let his habitation become desolate, and let no one live in it,’ and, ‘Let another take his office.’" 
Acts1:21 Therefore, of these men who have accompanied us while the Lord Jesus went in and out among us," 
Acts1:22 beginning from the baptism of John until the very day that He was taken up from us, one of these men must become with us a witness of His resurrection.”" 
Acts1:22 beginning from the baptism of John until the very day that He was taken up from us, one of these men must become with us a witness of His resurrection.”" 
Acts1:23 So they proposed two, Joseph, called Barsabbas, who was named Justus, and Matthias." 
Acts1:24 Then they prayed, “You, Lord, who knows the hearts of all men, show which of these two You have chosen" 
Acts1:25 to take the place in this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell, to go to his own place.”" 
Acts1:26 Then they cast lots, and the lot fell on Matthias. So he was numbered with the eleven apostles." 
Acts2:1 When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place." 
Acts2:2 Suddenly a sound like a mighty rushing wind came from heaven, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting." 
Acts2:3 There appeared to them tongues as of fire, being distributed and resting on each of them," 
Acts2:4 and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues, as the Spirit enabled them to speak." 
Acts2:5 Now dwelling in Jerusalem were Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven." 
Acts2:6 When this sound occurred, the crowd came together and were confounded, because each man heard them speaking in his own language." 
Acts2:7 They were all amazed and marveled, saying to each other, “Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?" 
Acts2:8 How is it that we hear, each in our own native language?" 
Acts2:9 Parthians, Medes and Elamites, residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia," 
Acts2:9 Parthians, Medes and Elamites, residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia," 
Acts2:10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the regions of Libya near Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes," 
Acts2:11 Cretans and Arabs—we hear them speaking in our own languages the mighty works of God.” 
Acts2:12 They were all amazed and perplexed, saying to each other, “What does this mean?”" 
Acts2:13 Others mocking said, “These men are full of new wine.”" 
Acts2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and said to them, “Men of Judea and all you who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words." 
Acts2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and said to them, “Men of Judea and all you who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words." 
Acts2:15 For these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is the third hour of the day." 
Acts2:16 But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel: 
Acts2:17 ‘In the last days it shall be,’ says God, ‘that I will pour out My Spirit on all people; your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams." 
Acts2:18 Even on My menservants and maidservants I will pour out My Spirit in those days; and they shall prophesy. 
Acts2:19 And I will show wonders in heaven above and signs on the earth below: blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke." 
Acts2:20 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and glorious day of the Lord comes." 
Acts2:21 And whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.’ 
Acts2:22 “Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth was a man attested to you by God with powerful works and wonders and signs, which God did through Him in your midst, as you yourselves know." 
Acts2:23 You have taken Him, who was handed over to you by the ordained counsel and foreknowledge of God, and by lawless hands have crucified and killed Him," 
Acts2:24 whom God raised up by loosening the pull of death, because it was not possible that He should be held by it." 
Acts2:25 For David says concerning Him: ‘I foresaw the Lord always before me, for He is at my right hand, that I may not be shaken." 
Acts2:26 Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; moreover my flesh will dwell in hope." 
Acts2:27 For You will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption." 
Acts2:28 You have made known to me the ways of life; You will make me full of joy with Your presence.’ 
Acts2:29 “Brothers, I may speak confidently to you concerning the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day." 
Acts2:30 But being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of his seed according to the flesh, He would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne," 
Acts2:31 he foresaw this and spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that His soul was not abandoned to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption." 
Acts2:32 God raised up this Jesus, of which we all are witnesses." 
Acts2:33 Therefore being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured out this which you now see and hear." 
Acts2:34 For David has not ascended to the heavens, yet he says: ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand," 
Acts2:35 Until I make Your enemies Your footstool.” ’ 
Acts2:36 “Therefore, let all the house of Israel assuredly know that God has made this Jesus, whom you have crucified, both Lord and Christ.”" 
Acts2:37 When they heard this, they were stung in the heart and said to Peter and to the rest of the apostles, “Brothers, what shall we do?”" 
Acts2:38 Peter said to them, “Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit." 
Acts2:39 For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all who are far away, as many as the Lord our God will call.”" 
Acts2:40 With many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, “Be saved from this perverse generation.”" 
Acts2:41 Then those who gladly received his word were baptized, and that day about three thousand souls were added to them." 
Acts2:42 They continued steadfastly in the apostles’ teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread and in the prayers." 
Acts2:43 Fear came to every soul. And many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. 
Acts2:44 All who believed were together and had all things in common. 
Acts2:45 They sold their property and goods and distributed them to all, according to their need." 
Acts2:46 And continuing daily with one mind in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart," 
Acts2:47 praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. 
Acts3:1 Now Peter and John went up together to the temple at the ninth hour, the hour of prayer." 
Acts3:1 Now Peter and John went up together to the temple at the ninth hour, the hour of prayer." 
Acts3:2 A man lame from birth was being carried, whom people placed daily at the Beautiful Gate of the temple to ask alms from those who entered the temple." 
Acts3:3 Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked for alms." 
Acts3:3 Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked for alms." 
Acts3:4 Peter, gazing at him with John, said, “Look at us.”" 
Acts3:4 Peter, gazing at him with John, said, “Look at us.”" 
Acts3:5 So he paid attention to them, expecting to receive something from them." 
Acts3:6 Then Peter said, “I have no silver and gold, but I give you what I have. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk.”" 
Acts3:7 He took him by the right hand and raised him up. Immediately his feet and ankles were strengthened. 
Acts3:8 Jumping up, he stood and walked and entered the temple with them, walking and jumping and praising God." 
Acts3:9 All the people saw him walking and praising God. 
Acts3:10 They knew that it was he who sat for alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what happened to him. 
Acts3:11 As the lame man who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the entrance that is called Solomon’s Porch, greatly amazed." 
Acts3:11 As the lame man who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the entrance that is called Solomon’s Porch, greatly amazed." 
Acts3:12 When Peter saw it, he answered the people: “Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this man? Or why do you stare at us, as if by our own power or piety we had made him walk?" 
Acts3:13 The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His Son Jesus, whom you handed over and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release Him." 
Acts3:14 You denied the Holy and Righteous One and asked for a murderer to be granted to you," 
Acts3:15 and you killed the Creator of Life, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses." 
Acts3:16 And His name, by faith in His name, has made this man strong, whom you see and know. And faith which comes through Him has given him perfect health in your presence." 
Acts3:17 “Now brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers." 
Acts3:18 But what God foretold through all the prophets, that His Christ should suffer, He thus fulfilled." 
Acts3:19 Therefore repent and be converted, that your sins may be wiped away, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord," 
Acts3:20 and that He may send the One who previously was preached to you, Jesus Christ," 
Acts3:21 whom the heavens must receive until the time of restoring what God spoke through all His holy prophets since the world began. 
Acts3:22 For Moses indeed said to the fathers, ‘The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall hear whatever He may say to you." 
Acts3:23 And it shall be that every soul who will not hear that prophet shall be utterly eliminated from the people.’ 
Acts3:24 “Indeed, all the prophets since Samuel and those who follow, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold these days." 
Acts3:25 You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘And in your seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.’" 
Acts3:26 God, having raised up His Son Jesus, sent Him to you first, to bless you in turning every one of you from your iniquities.”" 
Acts4:1 As they spoke to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees came upon them," 
Acts4:2 being greatly troubled, because they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead." 
Acts4:3 And they seized them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening." 
Acts4:4 But many of those who heard the word believed, and the number of the men grew to about five thousand." 
Acts4:5 On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes 
Acts4:6 were assembled at Jerusalem with Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and all who were of the family of the high priest." 
Acts4:6 were assembled at Jerusalem with Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and all who were of the family of the high priest." 
Acts4:7 When they had stood them in the midst, they asked, “By what power or by what name have you done this?”" 
Acts4:8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, “Rulers of the people and elders of Israel:" 
Acts4:9 If we today are being examined concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, how this man has been healed," 
Acts4:10 be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by Him this man stands before you whole." 
Acts4:11 He is ‘the stone you builders rejected, which has become the cornerstone.’" 
Acts4:12 There is no salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.”" 
Acts4:13 When they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were untrained and uneducated men, they marveled. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus." 
Acts4:13 When they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were untrained and uneducated men, they marveled. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus." 
Acts4:14 But seeing the man who was healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against it." 
Acts4:15 So when they had commanded them to go outside of the Sanhedrin, they conferred among themselves," 
Acts4:16 saying, “What shall we do to these men? For, indeed, that an acknowledged miracle has been done through them is revealed to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it." 
Acts4:17 But lest it spread further among the people, let us warn them no more to speak to anyone in this name.”" 
Acts4:18 Then they called them and commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John answered them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge." 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John answered them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge." 
Acts4:20 For we cannot help but declare what we have seen and heard.” 
Acts4:21 When they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them, because of the people. For all glorified God for what was done," 
Acts4:22 for the man on whom this miracle of healing was performed was over forty years old. 
Acts4:23 On being released, they went to their own people and reported what the chief priests and elders had said to them." 
Acts4:24 When they heard this, they lifted their voices in unity to God and prayed, “Lord, You are God, who has made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them," 
Acts4:25 and who by the mouth of Your servant David said: ‘Why did the nations rage, and the people devise vain things?" 
Acts4:26 The kings of the earth came, and the rulers were assembled together against the Lord and against His Christ.’" 
Acts4:27 Indeed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were assembled together against Your holy Son Jesus whom You have anointed," 
Acts4:28 to do what Your hand and Your counsel had foreordained to be done. 
Acts4:29 Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant that Your servants may speak Your word with great boldness," 
Acts4:30 by stretching out Your hand to heal and that signs and wonders may be performed in the name of Your holy Son Jesus.” 
Acts4:31 When they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with boldness." 
Acts4:32 All the believers were of one heart and one soul, and no one said that what he possessed was his own. But to them all things were in common." 
Acts4:33 With great power the apostles testified to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was on them all." 
Acts4:34 There was no one among them who lacked, for all those who were owners of land or houses sold them, and brought the income from what was sold," 
Acts4:35 and placed it at the apostles’ feet. And it was distributed to each according to his need. 
Acts4:36 Joseph, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which means, Son of Encouragement), a Levite from the land of Cyprus," 
Acts4:37 sold a field he owned, and brought the money and placed it at the apostles’ feet." 
Acts5:1 Now a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property." 
Acts5:2 He kept back part of the proceeds with his wife’s knowledge, and brought a part of it and placed it at the apostles’ feet." 
Acts5:3 Then Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to deceive the Holy Spirit and keep back part of the proceeds of the land?" 
Acts5:4 While it remained unsold, was it not your own? And when it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why have you conceived this deed in your heart? You did not lie to men, but to God.”" 
Acts5:5 On hearing these words, Ananias fell down and died. And great fear came on all those who heard these things." 
Acts5:6 The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him. 
Acts5:7 About three hours later his wife came in, not knowing what had happened." 
Acts5:8 Peter said to her, “Tell me whether you sold the land for this amount?” She said, “Yes, for that much.”" 
Acts5:9 Peter said to her, “How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.”" 
Acts5:10 At once she fell down at his feet and died. Upon entering, the young men found her dead and carried her out and buried her beside her husband." 
Acts5:11 Great fear came on the entire church and on all those who heard these things. 
Acts5:12 Many signs and wonders were performed among the people by the hands of the apostles. And they were all together in Solomon’s Porch. 
Acts5:13 No one else dared join them, but the people respected them." 
Acts5:14 Believers were increasingly added to the Lord, crowds of both men and women," 
Acts5:15 so that they even brought the sick out into the streets and placed them on beds and mats, that at least the shadow of Peter passing by might touch some of them." 
Acts5:16 Crowds also came out of the cities surrounding Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those who were afflicted by evil spirits, and they were all healed." 
Acts5:17 Then the high priest and all those who were with him (that is, the sect of the Sadducees) rose up and were filled with jealousy." 
Acts5:18 They seized the apostles and put them in the common prison. 
Acts5:19 But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and led them out, and said," 
Acts5:20 “Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.”" 
Acts5:21 Having heard this, they entered the temple at dawn and taught. But the high priest and those who were with him came and called together the Sanhedrin and the senate of all the Israelites, and sent to the prison to have them brought out." 
Acts5:22 But when the officers came and did not find them in the prison, they returned and reported," 
Acts5:23 “We found the prison securely shut and the guards standing outside before the doors. But when we opened it, we found no one inside.”" 
Acts5:24 Now when the high priest, the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these things, they were in doubt of what might become of this." 
Acts5:25 Then one came and told them, “Look, the men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.”" 
Acts5:26 Then the captain with his escorts went and brought them, without force lest they should be stoned, for they feared the people." 
Acts5:27 When they had brought them, they stood them before the Sanhedrin. And the high priest questioned them," 
Acts5:28 saying, “Did we not strictly command you not to teach in this name? Yet now you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring on us this Man’s blood.”" 
Acts5:29 Peter and the other apostles answered, “We must obey God rather than men." 
Acts5:30 The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging on a tree." 
Acts5:31 God exalted this Man to His right hand to be a Ruler and a Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins." 
Acts5:32 We are His witnesses to these words, as is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those who obey Him.”" 
Acts5:33 When they heard this, they were cut to the heart with rage and took counsel to kill them." 
Acts5:34 But a Pharisee in the Sanhedrin named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law honored by all the people, stood and ordered the apostles to be put outside for a little while." 
Acts5:35 Then he said to them, “Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what you intend to do concerning these men." 
Acts5:36 For in previous days Theudas rose up, boasting to be somebody, to whom a number of about four hundred men joined themselves. He was killed, and all who obeyed him were dispersed and came to nothing." 
Acts5:37 After Theudas, Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away many people after him. This man also perished, and all who obeyed him were scattered." 
Acts5:38 Now I tell you, keep away from these men and leave them alone, because if this intention or this activity is of men, it will come to nothing." 
Acts5:39 But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them, lest perhaps you be found even fighting against God.”" 
Acts5:40 They agreed with him. When they had called in the apostles, they beat them, and commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and released them." 
Acts5:41 Then they departed from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for His name." 
Acts5:42 Daily, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease to teach and preach Jesus Christ." 
Acts6:1 Now in those days, as the disciples were multiplied, there was murmuring among the Hellenists against the Hebrews, because their widows were overlooked in the daily distribution." 
Acts6:1 Now in those days, as the disciples were multiplied, there was murmuring among the Hellenists against the Hebrews, because their widows were overlooked in the daily distribution." 
Acts6:2 So the twelve called the multitude of disciples together and said, “It is not reasonable for us to leave the word of God and serve tables." 
Acts6:3 Brothers, look among yourselves for seven men who are known to be full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint over this duty." 
Acts6:4 But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word.” 
Acts6:5 And what was said pleased the whole multitude, and they chose Stephen, who was a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Procorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte from Antioch," 
Acts6:6 whom they presented before the apostles. And when they had prayed, they placed their hands on them." 
Acts6:7 So the word of God spread, and the number of the disciples grew rapidly in Jerusalem, and a great number of the priests were obedient to the faith." 
Acts6:8 Now Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people." 
Acts6:9 Then some men rose up from what is called the Synagogue of the Freedmen (Cyrenians, Alexandrians, and those from Cilicia and of Asia), disputing with Stephen." 
Acts6:10 But they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke. 
Acts6:11 Then they secretly instigated men who said, “We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God.”" 
Acts6:12 So they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and came upon him and seized him and led him to the Sanhedrin," 
Acts6:13 and set up false witnesses who said, “This man does not cease to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law." 
Acts6:14 For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place, and will change the customs which Moses handed down to us.”" 
Acts6:15 All who sat in the Sanhedrin, gazing at him, saw his face as the face of an angel." 
Acts7:1 Then the high priest said, “Are these things so?”" 
Acts7:2 He said, “Brothers and fathers, listen! The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Harran," 
Acts7:3 and said to him, ‘Leave your country and your relatives, and come to the land which I will show you.’" 
Acts7:4 “Then he departed from the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Harran. When his father died, He removed him from there to this land in which you now live." 
Acts7:5 He gave him no inheritance in it, nor a foothold, and promised to give it to him as a possession and to his descendants after him while he had no child." 
Acts7:6 God spoke in this way, ‘Your descendants shall be sojourners in a land belonging to others, who will enslave them and mistreat them four hundred years." 
Acts7:7 And I will judge the nation to whom they will be enslaved,’ said God. ‘After that they shall come out and worship Me in this place.’" 
Acts7:8 Then He gave him the covenant of circumcision. And Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day. And Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob became the father of the twelve patriarchs." 
Acts7:9 “The patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt. But God was with him," 
Acts7:10 and delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who appointed him ruler over Egypt and all his house." 
Acts7:11 “Then a famine came over all Egypt and Canaan with great affliction, and our fathers found no sustenance." 
Acts7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers the first time." 
Acts7:13 During the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph’s family became known to Pharaoh." 
Acts7:14 Then Joseph sent and called for his father Jacob and all his kindred, seventy-five souls." 
Acts7:15 Then Jacob went down into Egypt. And he and our fathers died," 
Acts7:16 and were carried to Shechem and put in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a price of silver from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem." 
Acts7:17 “When the time of the promise drew near, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt" 
Acts7:18 until another king rose up who did not know Joseph. 
Acts7:19 He dealt deceitfully with our people and mistreated our fathers, forcing them to expose their infants, so that they would not live." 
Acts7:20 “At that time Moses was born, and was fair in the sight of God. And he was reared for three months in his father’s house." 
Acts7:21 When he was placed outside, Pharaoh’s daughter took him away and reared him as her own son." 
Acts7:22 Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was powerful in words and in deeds. 
Acts7:23 “When he was forty years old, it came to his heart to visit his brothers, the Israelites." 
Acts7:24 But seeing one being wronged, he defended him, and avenged him who was oppressed, and struck the Egyptian." 
Acts7:25 He supposed that his brothers would understand that God would deliver them by his hand, but they did not understand." 
Acts7:26 On the next day he appeared to them as they fought and tried to reconcile them in peace, saying, ‘Men, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other?’" 
Acts7:27 “But the one wronging his neighbor pushed him away, saying, ‘Who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us?" 
Acts7:28 Will you kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?’ 
Acts7:29 Moses fled at this word and became a sojourner in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons." 
Acts7:30 “When forty years had passed, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire in a bush." 
Acts7:31 When Moses saw it, he marveled at the sight. As he drew near to look at it, the voice of the Lord came to him, saying," 
Acts7:32 ‘I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.’ Moses trembled and dared not look." 
Acts7:33 “Then the Lord said to him, ‘Take off the shoes from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground." 
Acts7:34 I have indeed seen the oppression of My people who are in Egypt. I have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. Now come, I will send you to Egypt.’" 
Acts7:35 “This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, ‘Who appointed you a ruler and a judge?’ God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush." 
Acts7:36 He led them out after he had shown wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and at the Red Sea, and for forty years in the wilderness." 
Acts7:37 “This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, ‘The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. Him you shall hear.’" 
Acts7:38 This is he who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our fathers, who received living oracles to give to us," 
Acts7:39 whom our fathers would not obey, but thrust away. And in their hearts they turned back to Egypt," 
Acts7:40 saying to Aaron, ‘Make for us gods to go before us. For we do not know what has become of this Moses, who led us out of the land of Egypt.’" 
Acts7:41 So they made a calf in those days, and offered a sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their hands." 
Acts7:42 But God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the Prophets: ‘O House of Israel, have you offered to Me slain animals and sacrifices for forty years in the wilderness?" 
Acts7:43 Yes, you even raised the shrine of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, idols which you made to worship; therefore I will exile you beyond Babylon.’" 
Acts7:44 “Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, telling Moses to make it as He had commanded, according to the pattern that he had seen," 
Acts7:45 which our fathers, having received it, brought with Joshua into the land possessed by the Gentiles, whom God drove out in front of our fathers until the days of David," 
Acts7:46 who found favor in the presence of God and asked to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob. 
Acts7:47 But Solomon built Him a house. 
Acts7:48 “However, the Most High does not dwell in houses made with hands. As the prophet says:" 
Acts7:49 ‘Heaven is My throne, and the earth is My footstool. What house will you build for Me? says the Lord, or what is the place of My rest?" 
Acts7:50 Has not My hand made all these things?’ 
Acts7:51 “You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears! You always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you." 
Acts7:52 Which of the prophets have your fathers not persecuted? They have even killed those who foretold the coming of the Righteous One, of whom you have now become the betrayers and murderers," 
Acts7:53 who have received the law by the disposition of angels, but have not kept it.”" 
Acts7:54 When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart with rage, and they gnashed their teeth at him." 
Acts7:55 But being full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God," 
Acts7:56 and said, “Behold, I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.”" 
Acts7:57 Then they cried out with a loud voice, closed their ears, and rushed at him in unison." 
Acts7:58 And they threw him out of the city and stoned him. The witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. 
Acts7:59 They stoned Stephen as he was calling on God, praying, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.”" 
Acts7:60 Then he knelt down and cried with a loud voice, “Lord, do not hold this sin against them.” Having said this, he fell asleep." 
Acts8:1 And Saul was consenting to his death. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church in Jerusalem. And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles." 
Acts8:1 And Saul was consenting to his death. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church in Jerusalem. And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles." 
Acts8:2 Devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him. 
Acts8:3 But Saul ravaged the church, entering house by house and dragging out both men and women and committing them to prison." 
Acts8:4 Therefore those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. 
Acts8:5 Philip went down to the main city of Samaria and preached Christ to them. 
Acts8:6 When the crowds heard Philip and saw the miracles which he did, they listened in unity to what he said." 
Acts8:7 For unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, came out of many who were possessed. And many who were paralyzed or lame were healed." 
Acts8:8 So there was much joy in that city. 
Acts8:9 Now a man named Simon was previously in the city practicing sorcery and astonishing the nation of Samaria, saying he was someone great," 
Acts8:10 to whom they all listened, from the least to the greatest, saying, “This man is the great power of God.”" 
Acts8:11 They listened to him, because for a long time he had astonished them by his sorceries." 
Acts8:12 But when they believed Philip preaching about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized." 
Acts8:13 Even Simon himself believed. And when he was baptized, he continued with Philip and was amazed as he watched the miracles and signs which were done." 
Acts8:14 Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them." 
Acts8:14 Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them." 
Acts8:15 When they came down, they prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit," 
Acts8:16 for still He had come on none of them. They were only baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
Acts8:17 Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit." 
Acts8:18 When Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles’ hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money," 
Acts8:19 saying, “Give me also this power, that whomever I lay hands on may receive the Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts8:20 Peter said to him, “May your money perish with you, because you thought you could purchase the gift of God with money!" 
Acts8:21 You have neither part nor share in this matter, for your heart is not right before God." 
Acts8:22 Therefore repent of your wickedness, and ask God if perhaps the intention of your heart may be forgiven you." 
Acts8:23 For I see that you are bitterly envious and in the bond of iniquity.” 
Acts8:24 Then Simon answered, “Pray to the Lord for me that nothing you have spoken may come upon me.”" 
Acts8:25 When they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans." 
Acts8:26 Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, “Rise up and go toward the south on the way that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.” This is desert." 
Acts8:27 So he rose up and went. And there was a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in command of her entire treasury. He had come to Jerusalem to worship." 
Acts8:28 He was returning, sitting in his chariot and reading the book of Isaiah the prophet." 
Acts8:29 The Spirit said to Philip, “Go to this chariot and stay with it.”" 
Acts8:30 Then Philip ran to him, and heard him read the book of Isaiah the prophet, and said, “Do you understand what you are reading?”" 
Acts8:31 He said, “How can I, unless someone guides me?” So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him." 
Acts8:32 The passage of Scripture which he was reading was this: “He was led as a sheep to slaughter; and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, so He opened not His mouth." 
Acts8:33 In His humiliation justice was denied Him; who will speak of His generation? For His life is taken from the earth.” 
Acts8:34 The eunuch asked Philip, “I ask you, of whom does the prophet speak, of himself or of someone else?”" 
Acts8:35 Then Philip spoke, beginning with the same Scripture, and preached Jesus to him." 
Acts8:36 As they went on their way, they came to some water. And the eunuch said, “Look, here is water. What hinders me from being baptized?”" 
Acts8:37 Then Philip said, “If you believe with all your heart, you may.” He answered, “I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.”" 
Acts8:38 And he commanded the chariot to halt. Then both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water, and he baptized him." 
Acts8:39 When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord took Philip away. And the eunuch saw him no more, and he went his way rejoicing." 
Acts8:40 But Philip was found at Azotus. And passing through, he preached the gospel in all the cities until he came to Caesarea." 
Acts9:1 Saul, still breathing out threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest," 
Acts9:2 and requested letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, so that if he found any there of the Way, either men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem." 
Acts9:3 As he went he drew near Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him." 
Acts9:4 He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why do you persecute Me?”" 
Acts9:5 He said, “Who are You, Lord?” The Lord said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goads.”" 
Acts9:6 Trembling and astonished, he said, “Lord, what will You have me do?” The Lord said to him, “Rise up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do.”" 
Acts9:7 The men traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one." 
Acts9:8 Saul rose up from the ground. And when his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus." 
Acts9:9 For three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank." 
Acts9:10 A disciple named Ananias was in Damascus. The Lord said to him in a vision, “Ananias.” He said, “Here I am, Lord.”" 
Acts9:11 The Lord said to him, “Rise and go to Straight Street, and inquire at Judas’ house for someone named Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying," 
Acts9:12 and has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, so that he may see again.”" 
Acts9:13 Ananias answered, “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how many evil things he has done to Your saints at Jerusalem." 
Acts9:14 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on Your name.” 
Acts9:15 But the Lord said to him, “Go your way. For this man is a chosen vessel of Mine, to bear My name before the Gentiles and their kings, and before the Israelites." 
Acts9:16 For I will show him how much he must suffer for My name’s sake.” 
Acts9:17 Then Ananias went his way and entered the house. Putting his hands on him, he said, “Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the way as you came, has sent me so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts9:18 Immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he could see again. And he rose up and was baptized." 
Acts9:19 When he had eaten, he was strengthened. For several days Saul was with the disciples in Damascus." 
Acts9:20 Immediately he preached in the synagogues that the Christ is the Son of God. 
Acts9:21 All who heard him were amazed and said, “Is not this he who killed those who called on this name in Jerusalem, and came here with that intent, to bring them bound to the chief priests?”" 
Acts9:22 Yet Saul increased all the more with power and confounded the Jews living in Damascus, proving that this One is the Christ." 
Acts9:23 After many days had passed, the Jews arranged to kill him." 
Acts9:24 But their scheme was known by Saul. They watched the gates day and night to kill him. 
Acts9:25 But the disciples took him by night, and lowered him in a basket through the wall." 
Acts9:26 When Saul had come to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples. But they all feared him, not believing he was a disciple." 
Acts9:27 But Barnabas took him, and led him to the apostles, and declared to them how on the road he had seen the Lord, and that He had spoken to him, and how he had boldly preached in Damascus in the name of Jesus." 
Acts9:28 So he stayed with them while coming in and going out of Jerusalem. 
Acts9:29 And he spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and disputed against the Hellenists. But they tried to kill him. 
Acts9:30 When the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him off to Tarsus." 
Acts9:31 Then the churches throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and were built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied." 
Acts9:31 Then the churches throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and were built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied." 
Acts9:32 As Peter passed through every region, he came down also to the saints who lived in Lydda." 
Acts9:33 There he found a man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years and was paralyzed." 
Acts9:34 Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you. Rise up and make your bed.” And immediately he rose up." 
Acts9:35 All those who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord. 
Acts9:36 In Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha, which is translated Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and almsgiving." 
Acts9:37 In those days she became ill and died. And when they had washed her, they placed her in an upper room." 
Acts9:38 Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, pleading, “Do not delay to come to us.”" 
Acts9:39 Peter rose up and went with them. When he arrived, they led him into the upper room. All the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them." 
Acts9:40 Peter put them all outside and knelt down and prayed. And turning to the body he said, “Tabitha, arise.” She opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up." 
Acts9:41 He gave her his hand and lifted her up. And when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive." 
Acts9:42 It became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord." 
Acts9:43 He remained in Joppa for many days with Simon, a tanner." 
Acts10:1 In Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, the centurion of a band of soldiers called the Italian Detachment," 
Acts10:2 a devout man and one who feared God with all his household, who gave many alms to the people and continually prayed to God." 
Acts10:3 About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God coming in and saying to him, “Cornelius.”" 
Acts10:4 When he looked intently at him, he was afraid, and said, “What is it, Lord?” He said to him, “Your prayers and your alms have come up as a memorial before God." 
Acts10:5 Now send men to Joppa and bring back Simon whose name is Peter. 
Acts10:6 He is lodging with Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea. He will tell you what you must do.”" 
Acts10:7 When the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier from among those who continually waited on him." 
Acts10:8 When he had explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa." 
Acts10:9 The next day as they went on their journey and drew near the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray about the sixth hour." 
Acts10:10 He became very hungry and desired to eat. But while they prepared a meal, he fell into a trance" 
Acts10:11 and saw heaven opened, and a vessel like a great sheet, tied at the four corners, descending to him, and let down to the earth." 
Acts10:12 In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth and wild beasts and reptiles and birds of the air. 
Acts10:13 Then a voice came to him, “Rise, Peter; kill and eat.”" 
Acts10:14 Peter said, “Not at all, Lord. For I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean.”" 
Acts10:15 The voice spoke to him a second time: “What God has cleansed, do not call common.”" 
Acts10:16 This happened three times. And again the vessel was taken up into heaven. 
Acts10:17 Now while Peter wondered what this vision which he had seen might mean, behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius had inquired for Simon’s house and stood at the gate," 
Acts10:18 and called and asked whether Simon, who was named Peter, was lodging there." 
Acts10:19 While Peter thought about the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Behold, three men are looking for you." 
Acts10:20 So rise and go down, and go with them, doubting nothing. For I have sent them.”" 
Acts10:21 Then Peter went down to the men who were sent to him by Cornelius and said, “Here I am, the one you are seeking. Why have you come?”" 
Acts10:22 They said, “Cornelius, a centurion, a man who is righteous and fears God and is of good report throughout the nation of the Jews, was directed by a holy angel to summon you to his house to hear your words.”" 
Acts10:23 Then he invited them in and gave them lodging. The next day Peter went with them, and some brothers from Joppa accompanied him." 
Acts10:24 And the next day they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them and had called together his relatives and close friends. 
Acts10:25 As Peter entered the house, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him." 
Acts10:26 But Peter lifted him up, saying, “Stand up. I myself am a man.”" 
Acts10:27 As he talked with him, he went in and found many who had come together." 
Acts10:28 He said to them, “You know how unlawful it is for a Jew to visit or approach a foreigner. But God has shown me not to call any man common or unclean." 
Acts10:29 So when I was sent for, I came without question. Therefore I ask why you have sent for me.”" 
Acts10:30 Cornelius said, “Four days ago I was fasting until this hour. At the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing," 
Acts10:31 and said, ‘Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms are remembered before God." 
Acts10:32 Therefore send to Joppa for Simon, whose name is Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea. When he comes, he will speak to you.’" 
Acts10:33 So immediately I sent for you, and you have done well to come. Now therefore we are all here, present before God, to hear everything the Lord has commanded you.”" 
Acts10:34 Then Peter began to speak, saying, “Truthfully, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons." 
Acts10:35 But in every nation he who fears Him and works righteousness is accepted by Him. 
Acts10:36 The word which He sent to the Israelites, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all," 
Acts10:37 the word, which you know, that was proclaimed throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John preached:" 
Acts10:37 the word, which you know, that was proclaimed throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John preached:" 
Acts10:37 the word, which you know, that was proclaimed throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John preached:" 
Acts10:38 how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him." 
Acts10:39 “We are witnesses of all that He did both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree." 
Acts10:40 But God raised Him on the third day and presented Him publicly," 
Acts10:41 not to all the people, but to witnesses previously chosen by God, to us who ate and drank with Him after He rose from the dead." 
Acts10:42 He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that it is He who was ordained by God to be the Judge of the living and the dead. 
Acts10:43 To Him all the prophets bear witness that whoever believes in Him will receive remission of sins through His name.” 
Acts10:44 While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all those who heard the word." 
Acts10:45 All the believers of the circumcision who had come with Peter were astonished, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out even on the Gentiles." 
Acts10:46 For they heard them speaking in other tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter continued," 
Acts10:47 “Can anyone forbid water for baptizing these, who have received the Holy Spirit as we have?”" 
Acts10:48 So he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay a few days. 
Acts11:1 The apostles and the brothers throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 
Acts11:1 The apostles and the brothers throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 
Acts11:2 So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those who were circumcised disputed with him," 
Acts11:3 saying, “You went in and ate with uncircumcised men!”" 
Acts11:4 Peter began explaining it to them in order, saying," 
Acts11:5 “I was in the city of Joppa praying. And in a trance I saw a vision: A vessel like a great sheet was descending, let down from heaven by four corners, and it came to me." 
Acts11:6 I considered what I had observed and saw four-footed creatures and wild beasts and reptiles and birds of the air. 
Acts11:7 Then I heard a voice saying to me, ‘Rise, Peter; kill and eat.’" 
Acts11:8 “I said, ‘Not at all, Lord. For nothing common or unclean has at any time entered my mouth.’" 
Acts11:9 “The voice answered from heaven a second time, ‘What God has cleansed, do not call common.’" 
Acts11:10 This happened three times. And again everything was taken up into heaven. 
Acts11:11 “And behold, at that very moment three men sent from Caesarea to me came to the house where I was." 
Acts11:12 The Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. Moreover these six brothers came with me, and we entered the man’s house." 
Acts11:13 He told us how he had seen an angel in his house, who stood and said to him, ‘Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon whose name is Peter." 
Acts11:14 He will speak words to you by which you and all your household will be saved.’ 
Acts11:15 “As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, as He fell on us at the beginning." 
Acts11:16 Then I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, ‘John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts11:16 Then I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, ‘John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts11:17 If then God gave them the same gift as He gave us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to be able to hinder God?”" 
Acts11:18 When they heard these things, they were silent. And they glorified God, saying, “Then God has granted to the Gentiles also repentance unto life.”" 
Acts11:19 Now those who were scattered by the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the word to no one except Jews." 
Acts11:20 Some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the Lord Jesus." 
Acts11:21 The hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord." 
Acts11:22 News of these things came to the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch." 
Acts11:23 When he arrived and saw the grace of God, he rejoiced and exhorted them all to remain with the Lord with a loyal heart." 
Acts11:24 For he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And many people were added to the Lord." 
Acts11:25 Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul. 
Acts11:26 When he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a considerable crowd. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch." 
Acts11:27 In these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. 
Acts11:28 One of them, named Agabus, stood up and prophesied by the Spirit that there would be a great famine throughout all the world, which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar." 
Acts11:29 Then every disciple, according to his ability, determined to send relief to the brothers who lived in Judea." 
Acts11:29 Then every disciple, according to his ability, determined to send relief to the brothers who lived in Judea." 
Acts11:30 Indeed they did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul." 
Acts12:1 About that time King Herod extended his hands to harm certain ones from the church. 
Acts12:2 He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword." 
Acts12:2 He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword." 
Acts12:2 He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword." 
Acts12:3 Seeing that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to arrest Peter also. This happened during the Days of Unleavened Bread." 
Acts12:4 When he had seized him, he put him in prison and handed him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending to bring him before the people after the Passover." 
Acts12:5 So Peter was kept in prison. But the church prayed to God without ceasing for him. 
Acts12:6 The very night when Herod would have brought him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains. And the guards before the door were securing the prison." 
Acts12:7 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the prison. He struck Peter on the side and woke him up, saying, “Rise up, quickly.” And the chains fell off his hands." 
Acts12:8 Then the angel said to him, “Dress yourself and put your sandals on.” And he did so. Then he said to him, “Wrap your cloak around you and follow me.”" 
Acts12:9 He went out and followed him, and did not know that what was done by the angel was real, but thought he was seeing a vision." 
Acts12:10 When they had passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate leading to the city, which opened to them by itself, and they went out and walked down one street, and immediately the angel left him." 
Acts12:11 When Peter had come to himself, he said, “Now I certainly know that the Lord has sent His angel and delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were expecting.”" 
Acts12:12 Realizing this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose other name was Mark, where many were gathered together praying." 
Acts12:12 Realizing this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose other name was Mark, where many were gathered together praying." 
Acts12:12 Realizing this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose other name was Mark, where many were gathered together praying." 
Acts12:13 As Peter knocked at the door of the porch, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer." 
Acts12:14 When she recognized Peter’s voice, from joy she did not open the door, but ran in and announced that Peter was standing at the door." 
Acts12:15 They said to her, “You are out of your mind!” But she insisted that it was really so. So they said, “It is his angel.”" 
Acts12:16 But Peter continued knocking. And when they opened the door and saw him, they were astonished." 
Acts12:17 Motioning to them with his hand to be quiet, he described to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. And he said, “Go, tell these things to James and to the brothers.” Then he departed and went to another place." 
Acts12:17 Motioning to them with his hand to be quiet, he described to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. And he said, “Go, tell these things to James and to the brothers.” Then he departed and went to another place." 
Acts12:18 Now when day came, there was a great disturbance among the soldiers about what had become of Peter." 
Acts12:19 When Herod had searched for him and did not find him, he examined the guards and commanded that they should be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there." 
Acts12:19 When Herod had searched for him and did not find him, he examined the guards and commanded that they should be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there." 
Acts12:20 Now Herod was very angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon. But they came to him in unity, and having made Blastus, the king’s personal servant, their friend, they asked for peace, because their country was fed by the king’s country." 
Acts12:21 On an appointed day, Herod, dressed in royal apparel, sat on his throne and gave a public speech to them." 
Acts12:22 The mob shouted, “It is the voice of a god, and not of a man!”" 
Acts12:23 Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give God the glory. And he was eaten by worms and died." 
Acts12:24 But the word of God spread and increased. 
Acts12:25 When Barnabas and Saul had fulfilled their ministry, they returned from Jerusalem and took with them John, whose name was Mark." 
Acts12:25 When Barnabas and Saul had fulfilled their ministry, they returned from Jerusalem and took with them John, whose name was Mark." 
Acts12:25 When Barnabas and Saul had fulfilled their ministry, they returned from Jerusalem and took with them John, whose name was Mark." 
Acts13:1 In the church that was in Antioch there were prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen who had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul." 
Acts13:2 As they worshipped the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, “Set apart for Me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.”" 
Acts13:3 Then after fasting and praying, they laid their hands on them and sent them off." 
Acts13:4 So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts13:5 When they arrived at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John as an assistant." 
Acts13:5 When they arrived at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John as an assistant." 
Acts13:6 When they had gone through the whole island to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a Jewish false prophet, whose name was Bar-Jesus," 
Acts13:7 who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. This man called for Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God." 
Acts13:8 But Elymas the sorcerer (which is his name by interpretation) opposed them, trying to divert the proconsul from the faith." 
Acts13:9 Then Saul, who also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, stared at him and said," 
Acts13:10 “You son of the devil, enemy of all righteousness, full of deceit and of all fraud, will you not cease perverting the right ways of the Lord?" 
Acts13:11 Now, behold, the hand of the Lord is against you, and you shall be blind, not seeing the sun for a time.” Immediately mist and darkness fell on him, and he went about seeking someone to lead him by the hand." 
Acts13:12 When the proconsul saw what had happened, he believed and was astonished at the teaching of the Lord." 
Acts13:13 Now when Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:13 Now when Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:14 But they departed from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia. And they went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down. 
Acts13:15 After the reading from the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent word to them, saying, “Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it.”" 
Acts13:16 Then Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said: “Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen." 
Acts13:17 The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt, and with great power He led them out of it." 
Acts13:18 For about forty years He endured their conduct in the desert. 
Acts13:19 When He had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, He gave them their land as an inheritance by lot." 
Acts13:20 “After about four hundred and fifty years, God gave them judges until Samuel the prophet." 
Acts13:21 Then they requested a king. And God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years." 
Acts13:22 When He had removed him, He raised up David to be their king, of whom He testified, saying, ‘I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after My own heart, who will fulfill My entire will.’" 
Acts13:23 “From this man’s descendants God has raised a Savior for Israel, Jesus, according to His promise." 
Acts13:24 Before His coming John had preached a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. 
Acts13:24 Before His coming John had preached a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. 
Acts13:25 As John was fulfilling his course, he said, ‘Who do you think I am? I am not He. But behold, there is coming One after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.’" 
Acts13:25 As John was fulfilling his course, he said, ‘Who do you think I am? I am not He. But behold, there is coming One after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.’" 
Acts13:26 “Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those of you who fear God, the word of this salvation has been sent to us." 
Acts13:27 Because those who live in Jerusalem, and their rulers, did not know Him, in condemning Him they have fulfilled the voices of the Prophets which are read every Sabbath." 
Acts13:28 Though they found in Him no cause worthy of death, yet they asked Pilate to have Him killed." 
Acts13:29 When they had fulfilled all that was written of Him, they took Him down from the tree and placed Him in a tomb." 
Acts13:30 But God raised Him from the dead," 
Acts13:31 and for many days He appeared to those who came up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now His witnesses to the people." 
Acts13:32 “We preach to you good news: The promise which was made to the fathers," 
Acts13:33 God has fulfilled to us, their children, raising Jesus. As it is written in the second Psalm: ‘You are My Son; today I have become Your Father.’" 
Acts13:34 That He raised Him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, He has spoken in this way: ‘I will give You the holy and sure blessings of David.’" 
Acts13:35 So He says in another Psalm: ‘You will not let Your Holy One see decay.’ 
Acts13:36 “For after David had served by the counsel of God in his own generation, he fell asleep, was buried with his fathers, and saw decay." 
Acts13:37 But He whom God raised up saw no decay. 
Acts13:38 “Therefore, brothers, let it be known to you that through this Man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you," 
Acts13:39 and by Him everyone who believes is justified from everything from which you could not be justified by the Law of Moses. 
Acts13:40 Therefore beware, lest what is spoken of in the prophets come upon you:" 
Acts13:41 ‘Look, you scoffers, marvel and perish! For I will perform a work in your days which you will never believe, even if someone declares it to you.’ ”" 
Acts13:42 When Paul and Barnabas went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles asked that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath." 
Acts13:43 When the congregation was dismissed, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who spoke to them and urged them to continue in the grace of God." 
Acts13:44 On the next Sabbath almost the whole city assembled to hear the word of God. 
Acts13:45 But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy, blaspheming and contradicting what Paul was saying." 
Acts13:46 Then Paul and Barnabas boldly said, “It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first. But seeing you reject it, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles." 
Acts13:47 For thus has the Lord commanded us: ‘I have established you to be a light of the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.’ ”" 
Acts13:48 When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And all who were ordained to eternal life believed." 
Acts13:49 The word of the Lord was spread throughout the entire region. 
Acts13:50 But the Jews stirred up the devout and honorable women and the chief men of the city, and raised up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them from their region." 
Acts13:51 So they shook off the dust of their feet against them and went to Iconium. 
Acts13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. 
Acts14:1 At Iconium they entered the synagogue of the Jews together and so spoke that a great crowd of both Jews and Greeks believed. 
Acts14:2 But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and embittered their minds against the brothers. 
Acts14:3 So they continued there a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to His gracious word, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands." 
Acts14:4 But the people of the city were divided. Some sided with the Jews, and others with the apostles." 
Acts14:5 When an assault was planned by both Gentiles and Jews, with their leaders, to attack them and to stone them," 
Acts14:6 they learned of it and fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the surrounding region." 
Acts14:7 And there they preached the gospel. 
Acts14:8 In Lystra there sat a man, crippled in his feet, who had never walked and was lame from birth." 
Acts14:9 He heard Paul speaking, who looked intently at him and perceived that he had faith to be healed" 
Acts14:10 and said with a loud voice, “Stand upright on your feet.” And he jumped up and walked." 
Acts14:11 When the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycaonian, “The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!”" 
Acts14:12 Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul they called Hermes, because he was the main speaker." 
Acts14:13 The priest of Zeus, who was in front of the city, brought bulls and garlands to the gates to offer sacrifices with the crowds." 
Acts14:14 But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard this, they tore their clothes and rushed out into the crowd, crying out," 
Acts14:15 “Men, why are you doing this? We also are men, of like nature with you, preaching to you to turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and everything that is in them," 
Acts14:16 who in times past allowed all nations to walk in their own ways. 
Acts14:17 Yet He did not leave Himself without witness, for He did good and gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying our hearts with food and gladness.”" 
Acts14:18 With these words they scarcely restrained the crowds from sacrificing to them. 
Acts14:19 Then some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there and persuaded the crowds. They stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing he was dead." 
Acts14:20 But as the disciples gathered around him, he rose up and went into the city. The next day he departed with Barnabas for Derbe." 
Acts14:21 When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch," 
Acts14:22 strengthening the minds of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith, to go through many afflictions and thus enter the kingdom of God." 
Acts14:23 When they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they believed." 
Acts14:24 Then they passed throughout Pisidia and came to Pamphylia," 
Acts14:25 and when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Attalia." 
Acts14:26 From there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had completed." 
Acts14:27 When they arrived and had assembled the church, they reported what God had done through them and how He had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles." 
Acts14:28 And there they stayed a long time with the disciples. 
Acts15:1 Some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised in the tradition of Moses, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts15:1 Some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised in the tradition of Moses, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts15:2 Therefore when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and dispute with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others among them, should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders about this question." 
Acts15:3 So being sent on their way by the church, they passed through Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles, and they brought great joy to all the brothers." 
Acts15:4 When they arrived in Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared what God had done through them." 
Acts15:5 Then some believers of the sect of the Pharisees rose up, saying, “It is necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the Law of Moses.”" 
Acts15:6 The apostles and elders assembled to consider this matter. 
Acts15:7 After much disputing, Peter rose up and said to them, “Brothers, you know that some time ago God decided among us, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe." 
Acts15:8 God, who knows the heart, approved of them, giving them the Holy Spirit just as He did to us," 
Acts15:9 and made no distinction between them and us, and purified their hearts by faith." 
Acts15:10 Now then, why test God by putting a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?" 
Acts15:11 But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they.”" 
Acts15:12 The entire assembly remained silent and listened to Barnabas and Paul declaring what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles. 
Acts15:13 After they had become silent, James answered, “Brothers, listen to me." 
Acts15:13 After they had become silent, James answered, “Brothers, listen to me." 
Acts15:14 Simon has declared how God first visited the Gentiles to take from among them a people for His name. 
Acts15:15 With this the words of the prophets agree. As it is written: 
Acts15:16 ‘After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen; I will rebuild its ruins, and I will set it up;" 
Acts15:17 that the rest of men may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by My name, says the Lord who does all these things.’" 
Acts15:18 Known to God are all His works since the beginning of the world. 
Acts15:19 “Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who are turning to God," 
Acts15:20 but that we write to them to abstain from food offered to idols, from sexual immorality, from strangled animals, and from blood." 
Acts15:21 For Moses has had in every city since early generations those who preach him, being read in the synagogues every Sabbath.”" 
Acts15:22 Then it pleased the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to send chosen men from among them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, namely, Judas called Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers." 
Acts15:23 They wrote this letter by their hand: The apostles and the elders and the brothers, To the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia: Greetings." 
Acts15:24 Since we have heard that some of us, whom we did not commission, have gone out and have troubled you with words, unsettling your minds, saying, “You must be circumcised and keep the law,”" 
Acts15:25 it seemed good to us, being assembled in unity, to send chosen men to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul," 
Acts15:26 men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Acts15:27 Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who will also speak to you, saying the same things." 
Acts15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to put on you no greater burden than these necessary things: 
Acts15:29 Abstain from food offered to idols, from sexual immorality, from strangled animals, and from blood. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell." 
Acts15:30 So when they were dismissed, they went down to Antioch. And when they had assembled the congregation, they delivered the letter." 
Acts15:31 When they had read it, they rejoiced over the exhortation." 
Acts15:32 Judas and Silas, being prophets themselves, exhorted the brothers with many words and strengthened them." 
Acts15:33 After they had remained there for a time, they were sent off in peace by the brothers to the apostles." 
Acts15:34 But it seemed good to Silas to remain there. 
Acts15:35 And Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also." 
Acts15:36 After some days Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us return and visit our brothers in every city where we preached the word of the Lord and see how they are doing.”" 
Acts15:37 Barnabas determined to take with them John, who was called Mark." 
Acts15:37 Barnabas determined to take with them John, who was called Mark." 
Acts15:37 Barnabas determined to take with them John, who was called Mark." 
Acts15:38 But Paul thought it was not good to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. 
Acts15:39 Then there arose a sharp contention, so that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus," 
Acts15:39 Then there arose a sharp contention, so that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus," 
Acts15:40 but Paul chose Silas and departed, being commended by the brothers to the grace of God." 
Acts15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches." 
Acts16:1 Then he came to Derbe and then to Lystra. A disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who believed, but his father was a Greek." 
Acts16:2 He was well spoken of by the brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium. 
Acts16:3 Paul wanted him to travel with him. So he took him and circumcised him, because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek." 
Acts16:4 As they went through the cities, they delivered to them the decrees to observe, that were set forth by the apostles and elders at Jerusalem." 
Acts16:5 So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and increased in number daily." 
Acts16:6 They went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia and were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. 
Acts16:7 When they came near Mysia, they tried to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit did not allow them." 
Acts16:8 So they passed by Mysia and went down to Troas. 
Acts16:9 During the night a vision appeared to Paul: A man of Macedonia stood and pleaded with him, saying, “Come over to Macedonia and help us.”" 
Acts16:10 After he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go into Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them." 
Acts16:11 From Troas we set sail on a straight course to Samothrace and the next day to Neapolis," 
Acts16:12 and from there to Philippi, which is the main city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony. We stayed in this city several days." 
Acts16:13 On the Sabbath we went out of the city to a riverside, where prayer was customarily offered. And we sat down and spoke to the women who had assembled." 
Acts16:14 A woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabric, who worshipped God, heard us. The Lord opened her heart to acknowledge what Paul said." 
Acts16:15 When she and her household were baptized, she entreated us, saying, “If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and remain there.” And she persuaded us." 
Acts16:16 On one occasion, as we went to the place of prayer, a servant girl possessed with a spirit of divination met us, who brought her masters much profit by fortune-telling." 
Acts16:17 She followed Paul and us, shouting, “These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to us the way of salvation.”" 
Acts16:18 She did this for many days. But becoming greatly troubled, Paul turned to the spirit and said, “I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her.” And it came out at that moment." 
Acts16:19 When her masters saw that the hope of their profits was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to the rulers." 
Acts16:20 And they brought them to the magistrates, saying, “These men, being Jews, greatly trouble our city" 
Acts16:21 and teach customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe.”" 
Acts16:21 and teach customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe.”" 
Acts16:22 The crowd rose up together against them. And the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them. 
Acts16:23 After they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to guard them securely." 
Acts16:24 Having received such an order, he threw them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks." 
Acts16:25 At midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them." 
Acts16:26 Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened and everyone’s shackles were loosened." 
Acts16:27 When the jailer awoke and saw the prison doors open, he drew his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped." 
Acts16:28 But Paul shouted, “Do not harm yourself, for we are all here.”" 
Acts16:29 He called for lights and rushed in, trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas." 
Acts16:30 He then led them out and asked, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?”" 
Acts16:31 They said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household.”" 
Acts16:32 And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his household. 
Acts16:33 In that hour of the night he took them and washed their wounds. And immediately he and his entire household were baptized. 
Acts16:34 Then he brought them up to his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced with his entire household, having believed in God." 
Acts16:35 When it was day, the magistrates sent the officers, saying, “Release those men.”" 
Acts16:36 The prison guard reported these words to Paul, saying, “The magistrates have sent to release you. Now therefore depart, and go in peace.”" 
Acts16:37 But Paul said to them, “They have publicly beaten us, who are uncondemned Romans, and have thrown us into prison. And now do they secretly throw us out? Certainly not! Let them come themselves and bring us out.”" 
Acts16:37 But Paul said to them, “They have publicly beaten us, who are uncondemned Romans, and have thrown us into prison. And now do they secretly throw us out? Certainly not! Let them come themselves and bring us out.”" 
Acts16:38 The officers reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans." 
Acts16:38 The officers reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans." 
Acts16:39 So they came and entreated them. And they brought them out, asking them to leave the city." 
Acts16:40 They went out of the prison and entered the house of Lydia. When they had seen the brothers, they exhorted them and departed." 
Acts17:1 When they had traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews." 
Acts17:2 According to his custom, Paul went in, and on three Sabbaths he lectured to them from the Scriptures," 
Acts17:3 explaining and proving that the Christ had to suffer and to rise from the dead, and saying, “This Jesus, whom I preach to you, is the Christ.”" 
Acts17:4 Some of them were persuaded and joined with Paul and Silas, including a great crowd of devout Greeks and many leading women." 
Acts17:5 But the Jews who did not believe became jealous and, taking some evil men from the marketplace, gathered a crowd, stirred up the city, and attacked the house of Jason, trying to bring them out to the mob." 
Acts17:6 But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brothers to the city officials, crying out, “These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also," 
Acts17:7 and Jason has received them. They are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.”" 
Acts17:8 They troubled the crowd and the city officials when they heard these things. 
Acts17:9 When they had taken a bail payment from Jason and the rest, they released them." 
Acts17:10 The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews." 
Acts17:11 These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with all eagerness, daily examining the Scriptures, to find out if these things were so." 
Acts17:12 Therefore many of them believed, including honorable Greek women and many Greek men." 
Acts17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that the word of God was preached by Paul at Berea, they came there also, stirring up the crowds." 
Acts17:14 The brothers immediately sent Paul away to the sea. But Silas and Timothy remained there. 
Acts17:15 Those who escorted Paul brought him to Athens and departed with instructions for Silas and Timothy to come to him quickly. 
Acts17:16 While Paul waited for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols." 
Acts17:17 Therefore he disputed in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace daily with those who happened to be there." 
Acts17:18 Then some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers encountered him. And some said, “What will this babbler say?” Others said, “He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign gods,” because he preached Jesus and the resurrection to them." 
Acts17:19 They took hold of him and led him to the Areopagus, saying, “May we know what this new teaching is of which you speak?" 
Acts17:20 For you are bringing strange things to our ears. Therefore we want to know what these things mean.” 
Acts17:21 For all the Athenians and foreigners who lived there spent their time in nothing else, but either telling or hearing something new." 
Acts17:22 Then Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus, and said: “Men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are very religious." 
Acts17:23 For as I passed by and looked up at your objects of worship, I found an altar with this inscription: to the unknown god***. Therefore, whom you worship as unknown, Him I proclaim to you." 
Acts17:24 “God who made the world and all things in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by hands." 
Acts17:25 Nor is He served by men’s hands, as though He needed anything, since He gives all men life and breath and all things." 
Acts17:26 He has made from one blood every nation of men to live on the entire surface of the earth, having appointed fixed times and the boundaries of their habitation," 
Acts17:27 that they should seek the Lord so perhaps they might reach for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us." 
Acts17:28 ‘For in Him we live and move and have our being.’ As some of your own poets have said, ‘We are His offspring.’" 
Acts17:29 “Therefore, since we are the offspring of God, we ought not to suppose that the Deity is like gold or silver or stone or an engraved work of art or an image of the reflection of man." 
Acts17:30 God overlooked the times of ignorance, but now He commands all men everywhere to repent." 
Acts17:31 For He has appointed a day on which He will judge the world in righteousness by a Man whom He has appointed, having given assurance of this to all men by raising Him from the dead.”" 
Acts17:32 When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some scoffed. But others said, “We will hear you again concerning this matter.”" 
Acts17:33 So Paul departed from them. 
Acts17:34 However, some men joined him and believed. Among them were Dionysius, member of the Areopagus, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them." 
Acts18:1 After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth." 
Acts18:2 He found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. And he went to them." 
Acts18:3 And because he was of the same trade, he remained with them and worked, for they were tentmakers by trade." 
Acts18:4 He lectured in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded Jews and Greeks. 
Acts18:5 When Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul was pressed by the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ." 
Acts18:6 But when they opposed him and blasphemed, he shook out his garments and said to them, “Your blood be upon your heads. I am innocent. From now on I will go to the Gentiles.”" 
Acts18:7 Then he departed from there and entered the house of a man named Justus, one who worshipped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue." 
Acts18:8 Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized." 
Acts18:9 The Lord spoke to Paul in the night through a vision, “Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent." 
Acts18:10 For I am with you, and no one shall attack you and hurt you, for I have many people in this city.”" 
Acts18:11 So for one year and six months he sat among them, teaching the word of God." 
Acts18:12 When Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews in unity attacked Paul and brought him to court," 
Acts18:13 saying, “This man is persuading men to worship God contrary to the law.”" 
Acts18:14 When Paul was about to speak, Gallio said to the Jews, “O Jews, if it were a matter of a misdemeanor or serious crime, I would rightly bear with you." 
Acts18:15 But if it is a question of words and names and your law, look into it yourselves. For I do not intend to be a judge of these matters.”" 
Acts18:16 So he drove them out of court. 
Acts18:17 Then all the Greeks seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. But none of these things mattered to Gallio." 
Acts18:18 Yet Paul remained many days. He had his hair cut in Cenchrea, for he had taken a vow. Then, bidding farewell to the brothers, he sailed to Syria, and Priscilla and Aquila were with him." 
Acts18:19 He arrived at Ephesus and left them there. But he himself went into the synagogue and lectured the Jews. 
Acts18:20 When they asked him to remain for a while longer, he did not consent," 
Acts18:21 but, bidding farewell, said, “I must by all means attend this upcoming feast in Jerusalem, but I will return to you if God wills.” And he set sail from Ephesus." 
Acts18:22 When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church and then went down to Antioch." 
Acts18:23 After spending some time there, he departed and passed through the entire region of Galatia and Phrygia in sequence, strengthening all the disciples." 
Acts18:24 Meanwhile a Jew named Apollos, born in Alexandria, who was an eloquent man and powerful in the Scriptures, came to Ephesus." 
Acts18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John, but being fervent in spirit, he accurately spoke and taught the things concerning the Lord." 
Acts18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John, but being fervent in spirit, he accurately spoke and taught the things concerning the Lord." 
Acts18:26 He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him and explained the way of God more accurately." 
Acts18:27 When Apollos intended to pass into Achaia, the brothers wrote to encourage the disciples to welcome him. On arriving, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace." 
Acts18:28 For he vehemently refuted the Jews publicly, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ." 
Acts19:1 While Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the upper regions and came to Ephesus. He found some disciples" 
Acts19:2 and said to them, “Have you received the Holy Spirit since you believed?” They said to him, “No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts19:3 He said to them, “Into what then were you baptized?” They said, “Into John’s baptism.”" 
Acts19:3 He said to them, “Into what then were you baptized?” They said, “Into John’s baptism.”" 
Acts19:4 Paul said, “John indeed baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people that they should believe in the One coming after him, that is, in Christ Jesus.”" 
Acts19:4 Paul said, “John indeed baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people that they should believe in the One coming after him, that is, in Christ Jesus.”" 
Acts19:5 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus." 
Acts19:6 When Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied." 
Acts19:7 There were about twelve men in all. 
Acts19:8 He went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, lecturing and persuading concerning the kingdom of God." 
Acts19:9 But when some were hardened and did not believe, but spoke evil of the Way before the crowd, he withdrew from them and took the disciples, lecturing daily in the school of Tyrannus." 
Acts19:10 This continued for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks." 
Acts19:11 God worked powerful miracles by the hands of Paul. 
Acts19:12 So handkerchiefs or aprons he had touched were brought to the sick, and the diseases left them, and the evil spirits went out of them." 
Acts19:13 Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists invoked the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, “We command you to come out in the name of Jesus whom Paul preaches.”" 
Acts19:14 There were seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva doing this. 
Acts19:15 But the evil spirit answered, “Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are you?”" 
Acts19:16 Then the man in whom the evil spirit was jumped on them, overpowered them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled from that house naked and wounded." 
Acts19:17 This became known to all Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus. And fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified." 
Acts19:18 Many who believed came confessing and telling their deeds. 
Acts19:19 Many who practiced magic brought their books together and burned them before everyone. They calculated their value, which equaled fifty thousand drachmas." 
Acts19:20 So the word of the Lord powerfully grew and spread. 
Acts19:21 When these things were accomplished, Paul determined in his spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go to Jerusalem, saying, “After I have been there, I must also see Rome.”" 
Acts19:22 He sent two who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, into Macedonia, but he delayed in Asia for a time." 
Acts19:23 About that time great trouble arose about the Way. 
Acts19:24 For a silversmith named Demetrius, who made silver shrines for Artemis, brought much business to the craftsmen." 
Acts19:25 He gathered them together with the workmen of similar trades and said, “Men, you know that by this trade we have our wealth." 
Acts19:26 And you see and hear, not only at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, that this Paul has persuaded and turned away many people, saying that these things made by hands are not gods." 
Acts19:27 Now not only is our trade in danger of coming into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis, whom all Asia and the world worship, may be discredited and her magnificence destroyed.”" 
Acts19:28 When they heard this, they were full of anger and cried out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:28 When they heard this, they were full of anger and cried out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:29 The city was filled with confusion. And in unison they seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul’s traveling companions from Macedonia, and rushed into the theater." 
Acts19:30 When Paul intended to go in among the crowd, the disciples would not let him." 
Acts19:31 Even some of the rulers of Asia, who were his friends, sent to him begging him not to venture into the theater." 
Acts19:32 The assembly was confused. Therefore some cried out one thing and some another, and most of them did not know why they had come together." 
Acts19:33 The Jews pushed Alexander to the front as the crowd prompted him. Alexander motioned with his hand, wishing to make his defense to the mob." 
Acts19:34 But when they learned that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all with one voice cried out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:34 But when they learned that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all with one voice cried out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:35 The city clerk quieted the crowd and said, “Men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the guardian of the temple of the great Artemis and of the image which fell from heaven?" 
Acts19:35 The city clerk quieted the crowd and said, “Men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the guardian of the temple of the great Artemis and of the image which fell from heaven?" 
Acts19:36 Seeing then that these things are undeniable, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash." 
Acts19:37 For you have brought these men here who are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of your goddess. 
Acts19:38 So if Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are open and there are proconsuls. Let them press charges against one another." 
Acts19:39 If you seek anything further, it shall be settled in the legal assembly." 
Acts19:40 For we are in danger of being charged with rioting today, since there is no reason we may give to account for this uproar.”" 
Acts19:41 When he had said this, he dismissed the assembly." 
Acts20:1 After the uproar ceased, Paul summoned the disciples and embraced them and departed for Macedonia." 
Acts20:2 When he had gone through that region and had greatly exhorted them, he came to Greece," 
Acts20:3 and stayed there three months. When the Jews plotted against him as he was about to sail to Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia." 
Acts20:4 Accompanying him to Asia were Sopater of Berea, and Aristarchus and Secundus of Thessalonica, Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia." 
Acts20:5 These men went forward and waited for us at Troas. 
Acts20:6 But we sailed away from Philippi after the Days of Unleavened Bread, and after five days we came to them at Troas, where we stayed for seven days." 
Acts20:7 On the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul, ready to leave the next day, preached to them and continued his message until midnight." 
Acts20:8 There were many lamps in the upper room where they were assembled. 
Acts20:9 A young man named Eutychus sat in the window, falling into a deep sleep as Paul spoke for a longer time. Being overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third floor and was taken up dead." 
Acts20:10 Paul went down and leaned over him, and embracing him said, “Do not be troubled, for he is alive.”" 
Acts20:11 When he had gone up and had broken bread and eaten, he conversed for a long while until dawn and departed." 
Acts20:12 They took the lad in alive and were greatly comforted. 
Acts20:13 We went ahead to the ship and sailed to Assos, intending to take Paul on board there. For he had arranged this, intending to go on foot." 
Acts20:14 When he met us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene." 
Acts20:15 We sailed from there, and on the next day arrived off Chios. The next day we crossed over to Samos and stayed at Trogyllium, and the following day we came to Miletus." 
Acts20:16 Paul had decided to sail by Ephesus, to avoid spending time in Asia. For he was hurrying so he could be in Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost." 
Acts20:17 From Miletus he sent to Ephesus for the elders of the church. 
Acts20:18 When they came to him, he said to them, “You know how I always lived among you from the first day that I came to Asia," 
Acts20:19 serving the Lord with all humility and with many tears and trials which befell me through the plots of the Jews. 
Acts20:20 I did not keep from declaring what was beneficial to you, and teaching you publicly and from house to house," 
Acts20:21 testifying to both Jews and Greeks of repentance toward God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Acts20:22 “Now, behold, having been bound by the Spirit, I am going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there," 
Acts20:23 except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me. 
Acts20:24 But none of these things deter me. Nor do I count my life of value to myself, so that I may joyfully finish my course and the ministry which I have received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God." 
Acts20:25 “Now, behold, I know that you all, among whom I went proclaiming the kingdom of God, will see my face no more." 
Acts20:26 Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men. 
Acts20:27 For I did not keep from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. 
Acts20:28 Therefore take heed to yourselves and to the entire flock, over which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood." 
Acts20:29 For I know this, that after my departure savage wolves will enter among you, not sparing the flock." 
Acts20:30 Even from among you men will arise speaking perverse things, to draw the disciples away after them." 
Acts20:31 Therefore watch, remembering that for three years night and day I did not cease to warn everyone with tears." 
Acts20:32 “Now, brothers, I commend you to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all who are sanctified." 
Acts20:33 I have not coveted anyone’s silver or gold or clothing. 
Acts20:34 Yes, you yourselves know that these hands have provided for my necessities and for those who were with me." 
Acts20:35 In all things I have shown you how, working like this, you must help the weak, remembering the words of the Lord Jesus, how He said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’  ”" 
Acts20:36 Having said these things, he knelt down with all of them and prayed." 
Acts20:37 They all wept much and embraced Paul’s neck and kissed him," 
Acts20:38 grieving most over the words he spoke, that they were to see his face no more. Then they escorted him to the ship." 
Acts21:1 When we had withdrawn from them and set sail, we went on a straight course to Cos, the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara." 
Acts21:2 We found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, went aboard, and set sail." 
Acts21:3 Having come in sight of Cyprus, we passed to the south of it and sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre, for there the ship’s cargo was to be unloaded." 
Acts21:4 When we found the disciples, we remained there seven days. They told Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:5 But when our days were over, we parted and traveled on. Everyone, with wives and children, escorted us until we were outside the city. And we knelt on the shore and prayed." 
Acts21:6 After bidding farewell to one another, we boarded the ship, and they returned home." 
Acts21:7 When we finished our voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, and we greeted the brothers and stayed with them for one day." 
Acts21:8 The next day we who were Paul’s companions departed, and arrived at Caesarea, and entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him." 
Acts21:9 He had four virgin daughters who prophesied. 
Acts21:10 While we stayed there many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea." 
Acts21:10 While we stayed there many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea." 
Acts21:11 When he had arrived, he took Paul’s belt and bound his own hands and feet, saying, “The Holy Spirit says, ‘In this manner the Jews at Jerusalem shall bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.’ ”" 
Acts21:12 When we heard these things, both we and the residents implored him not to go up to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:13 Then Paul answered, “What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be imprisoned, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.”" 
Acts21:14 When he would not be persuaded, we kept silent and said, “Let the will of the Lord be done.”" 
Acts21:15 After those days we got ready and went up to Jerusalem. 
Acts21:16 Some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us and brought with them Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we should lodge." 
Acts21:17 When we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly." 
Acts21:18 On the next day Paul went with us to James, and all the elders were present." 
Acts21:18 On the next day Paul went with us to James, and all the elders were present." 
Acts21:19 He greeted them and recounted one by one what God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. 
Acts21:20 When they heard this, they glorified the Lord. Then they said to him, “You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are who believe, and they are all zealous for the law." 
Acts21:21 They have been informed concerning you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children nor to observe the customs." 
Acts21:22 What then shall be done? The assembly will certainly meet, for they will hear that you have come." 
Acts21:23 Therefore do what we tell you. We have four men who have taken a vow. 
Acts21:24 Take these men and be purified with them, and pay their expenses so that they may have their heads shaved. Then all will know that what they were told concerning you is nothing, but that you yourself live in observance of the law." 
Acts21:25 As for the Gentiles who believe, we have written and concluded that they should observe no such thing, except that they abstain from food offered to idols, from sexual immorality, from strangled animals, and from blood.”" 
Acts21:26 Then on the next day, Paul took the men and purified himself with them. And he went into the temple, announcing when the days of purification would be complete and an offering would be given for each one of them." 
Acts21:27 When the seven days were nearly concluded, the Jews from Asia saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people, and laid hands on him," 
Acts21:28 crying out, “Men of Israel, help! This is the man teaching all men everywhere against the people and the law and this place. He even brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place.”" 
Acts21:29 For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed Paul had brought into the temple." 
Acts21:30 Then the whole city was provoked, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple. And immediately the doors were shut." 
Acts21:31 While they were trying to kill him, news came up to the commander of the battalion of soldiers that all Jerusalem was in an uproar." 
Acts21:32 He at once took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. When they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul." 
Acts21:33 Then the commander came and arrested him, and ordered that he be bound with two chains. Then he asked who he was and what he had done." 
Acts21:34 Some in the crowd shouted one thing, some another. As he could not learn the truth because of the uproar, he commanded that he be brought into the barracks." 
Acts21:35 When he came onto the stairs, he was carried by the soldiers, because of the violence of the people." 
Acts21:36 For the mob of people followed, crying out, “Away with him!”" 
Acts21:37 As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the commander, “May I speak to you?” He replied, “Do you know how to speak Greek?" 
Acts21:38 Are you not the Egyptian who in past days caused an uproar and led the four thousand men of the Sicarii out into the wilderness?” 
Acts21:39 Paul said, “I am a Jew, from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no common city. I beg of you, permit me to speak to the people.”" 
Acts21:40 When he had given him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. When there was great silence, he addressed them in the Aramaic language, saying," 
Acts22:1 “Brothers and fathers, hear my defense that I now make before you.”" 
Acts22:2 When they heard that he addressed them in the Aramaic language, they became even more quiet. Then he said," 
Acts22:3 “I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city. At the feet of Gamaliel I was trained in the strict tradition of the law of the fathers, being zealous toward God as you all are today." 
Acts22:4 I persecuted this Way to the death, arresting and imprisoning both men and women," 
Acts22:5 as even the high priest and the council of elders bear witness of me. From them I received letters to the brothers in Damascus, where I went to take even those who were there and lead them in chains to Jerusalem to be punished." 
Acts22:6 “As I journeyed and came near Damascus, about noon suddenly a great light from heaven shone around me." 
Acts22:7 I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why do you persecute Me?’" 
Acts22:8 “I answered, ‘Who are You, Lord?’ “He said to me, ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.’" 
Acts22:9 Those who were with me saw the light and were afraid, but they did not hear the voice of Him who was speaking to me." 
Acts22:10 “I said, ‘What shall I do, Lord?’ “The Lord said to me, ‘Rise and go into Damascus. There you will be told what you have been appointed to do.’" 
Acts22:11 Since I was blinded by the glory of that light, those who were with me led me by the hand into Damascus." 
Acts22:12 “Ananias, a devout man according to the law, who was well spoken of by all the Jews living there," 
Acts22:13 came and stood by me, and said, ‘Brother Saul, receive your sight.’ And at that moment I looked up at him." 
Acts22:14 “Then he said, ‘The God of our fathers has appointed you to know His will and to see the Just One and to hear His voice," 
Acts22:15 for you will be His witness to all men of what you have seen and heard. 
Acts22:16 And now why do you wait? Rise, be baptized and wash away your sins, and call on the name of the Lord.’" 
Acts22:17 “When I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance" 
Acts22:18 and saw Him saying to me, ‘Hurry! Get out of Jerusalem immediately, for they will not receive your testimony concerning Me.’" 
Acts22:19 “I said, ‘Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat those who believed in You in every synagogue." 
Acts22:20 And when the blood of Your martyr Stephen was shed, I was standing by consenting to his death, guarding the clothes of those who killed him.’" 
Acts22:21 “Then He said to me, ‘Depart, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.’  ”" 
Acts22:22 They listened to him up to this word, and then they lifted up their voices and said, “Away with such a man from the earth, for he is not fit to live!”" 
Acts22:23 As they shouted and threw off their garments and threw dust into the air," 
Acts22:24 the commander ordered him to be brought into the barracks and examined with scourging, so that he might learn what crime they were alleging against him." 
Acts22:25 As they stretched him forward with straps, Paul said to the centurion standing by, “Is it legal for you to flog an uncondemned Roman citizen?”" 
Acts22:26 On hearing this, the centurion reported to the commander, saying, “What are you doing? This man is a Roman citizen.”" 
Acts22:27 The commander came and said to him, “Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?” He said, “Yes.”" 
Acts22:28 The commander answered, “I bought my citizenship for a large sum.” So Paul said, “But I was born a citizen.”" 
Acts22:29 Therefore those who were about to examine Paul immediately backed away from him. And the commander feared, knowing that he was a Roman citizen, and because he had bound him." 
Acts22:30 On the next day, desiring to know exactly why he was accused by the Jews, he released him and ordered the chief priests and all the Sanhedrin to assemble, and he brought Paul down to stand before them." 
Acts23:1 Paul looked at the Sanhedrin and said, “Brothers, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day.”" 
Acts23:2 The high priest Ananias ordered those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth. 
Acts23:3 Then Paul said to him, “God will strike you, you whitewashed wall! Do you sit judging me according to the law, yet order me to be struck contrary to the law?”" 
Acts23:4 Those who stood by said, “Do you criticize God’s high priest?”" 
Acts23:5 Paul said, “Brothers, I did not know that he was the high priest. For it is written, ‘You shall not speak evil of the ruler of your people.’ ”" 
Acts23:6 Then Paul, knowing that one sect were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, cried out among the Sanhedrin, “Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of a Pharisee. I am being judged for my hope in the resurrection of the dead.”" 
Acts23:7 When he had said this, dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided." 
Acts23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit. But the Pharisees acknowledge them all." 
Acts23:9 There was a great outcry. The scribes that were from the sect of Pharisees stood up and argued, “We find no evil in this man. But if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him, let us not fight against God.”" 
Acts23:10 When much dissension arose, fearing that Paul would be torn to pieces by them, the commander ordered the soldiers to go down and take him from them by force and bring him into the barracks." 
Acts23:11 The following night the Lord stood by him and said, “Take courage, Paul. For as you have testified about Me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify at Rome.”" 
Acts23:12 At daybreak some of the Jews conspired under oath, saying they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul." 
Acts23:13 There were more than forty who had conspired. 
Acts23:14 They went to the chief priests and elders and said, “We have bound ourselves under oath not to eat until we have killed Paul." 
Acts23:15 So now, with the Sanhedrin, tell the commander to bring him down to you tomorrow, pretending to inquire further concerning him. We are ready to kill him before he arrives.”" 
Acts23:16 But when the son of Paul’s sister heard of the treachery, he went and entered the barracks and told Paul." 
Acts23:17 Then Paul called one of the centurions over and said, “Take this young man to the commander, for he has something to tell him.”" 
Acts23:18 So he took him to the commander and said, “Paul the prisoner sent for me and asked me to bring you this young man who has something to tell you.”" 
Acts23:19 Then the commander took him by the hand, went aside privately, and asked him, “What is it you have to tell me?”" 
Acts23:20 The boy said, “The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down tomorrow to the Sanhedrin, pretending to inquire further concerning him." 
Acts23:21 Do not trust them. More than forty men, who have bound themselves with an oath to neither eat nor drink until they have killed him, are waiting for him. And now they are ready, waiting for your promise.”" 
Acts23:22 The commander dismissed the young man and ordered him, “Tell no one that you have reported these things to me.”" 
Acts23:23 Then he summoned two centurions and said, “Prepare two hundred infantrymen, seventy mounted soldiers, and two hundred light infantrymen with spears to go to Caesarea at the third hour of the night." 
Acts23:24 And provide mounts so Paul may ride and take him safely to Felix the governor.” 
Acts23:25 He wrote a letter that went like this: 
Acts23:26 Claudius Lysias, To His Excellency Governor Felix: Greetings." 
Acts23:27 This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them. When I learned that he was a Roman citizen, I came with soldiers and rescued him." 
Acts23:28 Since I wanted to learn what crime they alleged, I took him to their Sanhedrin." 
Acts23:29 I found him being accused of controversial matters about their law, but charged with nothing worthy of death or imprisonment." 
Acts23:30 When it was revealed to me that there was a plot against the man, at once I sent him to you and ordered the accusers to state before you their charges against him. Farewell." 
Acts23:31 So the soldiers, according to their orders, took Paul by night to Antipatris." 
Acts23:32 The next day they let the cavalry depart with him and they returned to the barracks. 
Acts23:33 When they arrived in Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they presented Paul also to him." 
Acts23:34 Upon reading the letter, the governor asked what province he was from. When he learned that he was from Cilicia," 
Acts23:35 he said, “I will hear you when your accusers also arrive.” And he ordered that he be guarded in Herod’s Praetorium." 
Acts24:1 After five days Ananias the high priest arrived with some of the elders and a lawyer named Tertullus. They brought before the governor their charges against Paul. 
Acts24:2 When he was summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “Since through you we enjoy much peace, and your foresight is bringing reforms to this nation," 
Acts24:3 with all thankfulness, most excellent Felix, we always welcome it everywhere." 
Acts24:4 But not to detain you further, I beg you to briefly hear us in your patience." 
Acts24:5 “We have found this man a troublemaker, instigating riots among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes." 
Acts24:6 He even tried to profane the temple. So we seized him and wanted to judge him according to our law. 
Acts24:7 But the commander, Lysias, came to us and forcefully took him out of our hands," 
Acts24:8 ordering his accusers to come before you. By examining him yourself you will be able to learn about all these things concerning which we accuse him.” 
Acts24:9 The Jews assented, alleging these things to be true." 
Acts24:10 After the governor motioned to him to speak, Paul answered, “Knowing that for many years you have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully defend myself." 
Acts24:11 You may verify that it is no more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship. 
Acts24:12 They did not find me in the temple or in the synagogues or in the city disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd. 
Acts24:13 They cannot prove the things concerning which they now accuse me. 
Acts24:14 However, I affirm that in accordance with the Way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of my fathers and believe everything written in the Law and in the Prophets." 
Acts24:15 I have hope in God that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust, which they also expect." 
Acts24:16 In this do I always strive to have a clear conscience toward God and toward men. 
Acts24:17 “Now after many years I came to bring alms and offerings to my nation," 
Acts24:18 when some Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with a crowd nor an uproar." 
Acts24:19 They ought to be here before you to accuse me if they have any charges. 
Acts24:20 Or let these men say what crime they found in me when I stood before the Sanhedrin," 
Acts24:21 unless it is concerning this one statement which I cried out while standing among them, ‘Concerning the resurrection of the dead, I am being judged by you this day.’ ”" 
Acts24:22 When Felix, who had more exact knowledge concerning the Way, had heard this, he adjourned the proceedings and said, “When Lysias the commander arrives, I will decide your case.”" 
Acts24:23 Then he ordered the centurion to guard Paul, and to let him have liberty, and to forbid none of his own people from attending to him." 
Acts24:24 After several days, when Felix arrived with his wife Drusilla, who was a Jewish woman, he sent for Paul and heard him speak concerning faith in Christ." 
Acts24:25 As he lectured about righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix was afraid and answered, “For now, leave! When time permits, I will send for you.”" 
Acts24:26 At the same time he hoped that money would be given him by Paul, that he might release him. So he sent for him more often and conversed with him." 
Acts24:27 But after two years Porcius Festus succeeded Felix. And Felix, desiring to do the Jews a favor, left Paul imprisoned." 
Acts25:1 Now three days after Festus had come into the province, he went from Caesarea up to Jerusalem." 
Acts25:2 The high priest and the elders of the Jews spoke to him against Paul. And they begged him," 
Acts25:3 asking as a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem, plotting to kill him along the way." 
Acts25:4 Festus said that Paul should be kept at Caesarea and that he himself intended to go there shortly. 
Acts25:5 He also said, “Let the men in authority go down with me. If there is anything wrong in the man, let them accuse him.”" 
Acts25:6 Having stayed among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea. And the next day he sat on the judgment seat and ordered that Paul be brought in." 
Acts25:7 When he arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him and brought many serious charges against him which they could not prove," 
Acts25:8 while he defended himself, saying, “Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar have I sinned at all.”" 
Acts25:9 But Festus, desiring to do the Jews a favor, asked Paul, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem to be judged concerning these charges before me?”" 
Acts25:10 Paul said, “I am standing before Caesar’s judgment seat, where I ought to be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you know very well." 
Acts25:11 If I am doing wrong or have done anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die. But if these are empty charges of which these men accuse me, no one may deliver me to them. I appeal to Caesar.”" 
Acts25:12 When Festus had conferred with the council, he then answered, “To Caesar you have appealed. To Caesar you shall go.”" 
Acts25:13 After several days King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea to welcome Festus. 
Acts25:14 When they had been there many days, Festus stated Paul’s case to the king, saying, “There is a man left as a prisoner by Felix." 
Acts25:15 When I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me about him, asking for a sentence against him." 
Acts25:16 “I answered, ‘It is not the custom of the Romans to deliver any man to die before he who is accused meets the accusers face to face and has the opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge brought against him.’" 
Acts25:16 “I answered, ‘It is not the custom of the Romans to deliver any man to die before he who is accused meets the accusers face to face and has the opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge brought against him.’" 
Acts25:17 So when they assembled here, without delay I sat on the judgment seat the next day and ordered that the man be brought in." 
Acts25:18 When the accusers stood up, they brought no accusation against him of such crimes as I had supposed." 
Acts25:19 But they had disagreements with him about their own religion and about a Man named Jesus, who had died, but whom Paul asserted was alive." 
Acts25:20 Being perplexed about such questions, I asked if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem and be tried there concerning these charges." 
Acts25:21 But when Paul had appealed to be under guard for the decision of Caesar, I ordered that he be secured until I could send him to Caesar.”" 
Acts25:22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, “I would like to hear the man myself.” He said, “Tomorrow you shall hear him.”" 
Acts25:23 The next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp, and they entered the hall with the commanders and the leading men of the city. When Festus gave the order, Paul was brought in." 
Acts25:24 Festus said, “King Agrippa, and all the men who are present with us, you see this man, concerning whom the whole assembly of the Jews petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer." 
Acts25:25 I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death. But when he himself appealed to Caesar, I decided to send him." 
Acts25:26 But I have nothing to write to my lord concerning him. Therefore I have brought him before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after the examination has taken place, I might have something to write." 
Acts25:27 For it seems unreasonable to me to send a prisoner without signifying the charges against him.” 
Acts26:1 Then Agrippa said to Paul, “You are permitted to speak for yourself.” So Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:" 
Acts26:2 “King Agrippa, I consider myself fortunate that today I shall make my defense before you against all the accusations of the Jews," 
Acts26:3 especially because you are an expert in all customs and controversies of the Jews. Therefore I beg you to patiently listen to me. 
Acts26:4 “My manner of life from my youth, spent from the beginning in my own nation and at Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews." 
Acts26:5 They knew me from the beginning and could testify, if they wished, how according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee." 
Acts26:6 And now I stand on trial for hope in the promise made by God to our fathers," 
Acts26:7 to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly serve God day and night. Concerning this hope, King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews." 
Acts26:8 Why is it judged incredible by you that God raises the dead? 
Acts26:9 “I myself was convinced that I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
Acts26:10 This I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints I locked up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests. And when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them." 
Acts26:11 I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme. And being extremely enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities." 
Acts26:12 “So I went to Damascus with authority and a commission from the chief priests. 
Acts26:13 At midday, O King, I saw along the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who journeyed with me." 
Acts26:14 When we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Aramaic language, ‘Saul, Saul, why do you persecute Me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’" 
Acts26:15 “I said, ‘Who are You, Lord?’ “He said, ‘I am Jesus whom you are persecuting." 
Acts26:16 But rise and stand on your feet. For I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and a witness both of what you have seen and of what I will yet reveal to you." 
Acts26:17 I will deliver you from your people and from the Gentiles to whom I now send you," 
Acts26:18 to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Me.’" 
Acts26:19 “Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision," 
Acts26:20 but declared first to those at Damascus, then at Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God and do works proving their repentance." 
Acts26:20 but declared first to those at Damascus, then at Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God and do works proving their repentance." 
Acts26:21 For these reasons the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me. 
Acts26:22 Therefore having obtained help from God, I continue to this day, testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would happen:" 
Acts26:23 that the Christ must suffer, that He would be the first who would rise from the dead, and would announce light to His own people and to the Gentiles.”" 
Acts26:24 So as he made his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, “Paul, you are mad. Much learning is turning you to madness.”" 
Acts26:25 Paul said, “I am not mad, most excellent Festus. I speak the words of truth and reason." 
Acts26:26 The king, before whom I also speak freely, knows about these things. For I am persuaded that none of this is hidden from him, for this was not done in a corner." 
Acts26:27 King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe.”" 
Acts26:28 Then Agrippa said to Paul, “You almost persuade me to be a Christian.”" 
Acts26:29 Paul said, “I pray to God that not only you, whether in a short or long time, but all who hear me this day, might become what I am, except for these chains.”" 
Acts26:30 When he had said this, the king rose, as well as the governor and Bernice and those who sat with them." 
Acts26:31 When they had gone aside, they said to one another, “This man is doing nothing deserving death or imprisonment.”" 
Acts26:32 And Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.”" 
Acts27:1 When it was decided that we should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan Regiment." 
Acts27:2 Boarding a ship from Adramyttium, we put out to sea, meaning to sail along the coasts of Asia. Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, was with us." 
Acts27:3 The next day we landed at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him leave to go to his friends and be given care. 
Acts27:4 From there we put out to sea and sailed under the leeward side of Cyprus, because the winds were against us." 
Acts27:5 Sailing across the sea off of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia." 
Acts27:6 There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing to Italy, and he put us on board." 
Acts27:7 We sailed slowly for many days, and arrived with difficulty off Cnidus, and as the wind did not allow us to proceed, we sailed under the leeward side of Crete off Salmone." 
Acts27:8 Sailing past it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea." 
Acts27:9 As much time had been lost and as the voyage was now dangerous, because the Day of Atonement was already over, Paul advised them," 
Acts27:10 saying, “Men, I perceive that this voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and ship, but also of our lives.”" 
Acts27:11 But the centurion was persuaded more by the captain and the owner of the ship than by what Paul said. 
Acts27:12 Since the harbor was not suitable to winter in, the majority decided to sail on from there, if somehow we might reach Phoenix, a harbor in Crete, facing southwest and northwest, and winter there." 
Acts27:13 When a south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained the necessary conditions, they weighed anchor and sailed along the shore of Crete." 
Acts27:14 But soon afterward a tempestuous wind swept through, called the Euraquilo." 
Acts27:15 When the ship was overpowered and could not head into the wind, we let her drift." 
Acts27:16 Drifting under the leeward side of an island called Cauda, we could scarcely secure the rowboat." 
Acts27:17 When they had hoisted it aboard, they used ropes to undergird the ship. And fearing that they might run aground on the sands of Syrtis, they struck sail and so were driven." 
Acts27:18 We were violently tossed by the storm. The next day they threw cargo overboard. 
Acts27:19 On the third day we threw the tackle of the ship overboard with our own hands. 
Acts27:20 When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small storm was upon us, all hope that we should be saved was lost." 
Acts27:21 After they had long abstained from food, Paul stood in their midst and said, “Men, you should have listened to me and not have set sail from Crete, incurring this injury and loss." 
Acts27:22 But now I advise you to take courage, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship." 
Acts27:23 For there stood by me this night the angel of God to whom I belong and whom I serve," 
Acts27:24 saying, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has given you all those who sail with you.’" 
Acts27:25 Therefore, men, take courage, for I believe God that it will be exactly as it was told to me." 
Acts27:26 Nevertheless, we must be shipwrecked on a certain island.”" 
Acts27:27 When the fourteenth night came, while we were drifting in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors supposed that they were approaching land." 
Acts27:28 They took soundings and found the water to be one hundred and twenty feet deep. When they had gone a little farther, they took soundings again and found it to be ninety feet deep." 
Acts27:29 Fearing that we might run aground on the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern and prayed for day to come." 
Acts27:30 When the sailors strove to abandon ship and lowered the boat into the sea, under the pretext of lowering anchors out of the bow," 
Acts27:31 Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, “Unless these sailors remain in the ship, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts27:32 Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat and let her fall off. 
Acts27:33 As day was about to dawn, Paul asked them all to eat, saying, “Today is the fourteenth day that you have waited and continued without food, having eaten nothing." 
Acts27:34 So I urge you to eat. This is for your preservation, for not a hair shall fall from your head.”" 
Acts27:35 When he had said this, he took some bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all. And when he had broken it, he began to eat." 
Acts27:36 Then they were all encouraged, and they also ate food themselves." 
Acts27:37 In all we were two hundred and seventy-six persons on the ship. 
Acts27:38 When they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship and threw the wheat into the sea." 
Acts27:39 When it was day, they did not recognize the land. But they noticed a bay with a shore, into which they were determined to run the ship if possible." 
Acts27:40 Casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea while loosening the ropes that secured the rudders. Then they hoisted the mainsail to the wind and made for shore." 
Acts27:41 But striking a sandbar where two seas met, they ran the ship aground. The bow stuck and remained immovable, but the stern was broken up by the violent surf." 
Acts27:42 The soldiers’ plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim away and escape." 
Acts27:43 But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, prevented them from their intent and ordered those who could swim to abandon ship first and get to land," 
Acts27:44 and the rest on planks or on pieces of the ship. And in this way they all escaped safely to land. 
Acts28:1 When they had escaped, they learned that the island was called Malta." 
Acts28:2 The natives showed extraordinary kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because of the rain and the cold." 
Acts28:3 When Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper driven out by the heat fastened on his hand." 
Acts28:4 When the natives saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, “Surely this man is a murderer. Though he has escaped from the sea, the goddess Justice has not allowed him to live.”" 
Acts28:5 But he shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm. 
Acts28:6 They expected him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But while they waited and saw no harm befall him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god." 
Acts28:7 In that area was an estate of the chief man of the island, named Publius, who had welcomed us and courteously housed us for three days." 
Acts28:8 It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with a fever and dysentery. Paul visited him and, placing his hands on him, prayed and healed him." 
Acts28:9 When this happened, the rest on the island who had diseases also came and were healed." 
Acts28:10 They honored us in many ways. And when we sailed, they provided us with necessary supplies." 
Acts28:11 After three months we sailed in an Alexandrian ship whose figurehead was the Twin Brothers, Castor and Pollux, which had wintered at the island." 
Acts28:12 Landing at Syracuse, we waited there for three days." 
Acts28:13 From there we circled around and sailed to Rhegium. After one day the south wind blew, and the next day we arrived at Puteoli." 
Acts28:14 There we found brothers, and were invited to remain with them for seven days. And so we went to Rome." 
Acts28:15 From there, when the brothers heard of us, they traveled as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns to meet us. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage." 
Acts28:16 When we arrived at Rome, the centurion handed the prisoners over to the captain of the guard. But Paul was allowed to remain by himself with the soldier who guarded him." 
Acts28:17 After three days Paul called the leaders of the Jews together. When they had assembled, he said to them, “Brothers, having done nothing contrary to our people or the customs of our fathers, I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans." 
Acts28:17 After three days Paul called the leaders of the Jews together. When they had assembled, he said to them, “Brothers, having done nothing contrary to our people or the customs of our fathers, I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans." 
Acts28:18 When they had examined me, they were determined to release me, because there was no charge against me deserving death." 
Acts28:19 But when the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not that I had any charge to bring against my nation." 
Acts28:20 For this reason I have asked to see you and speak with you, because I am bound with this chain for the hope of Israel.”" 
Acts28:21 They said to him, “We have not received any letters from Judea concerning you, and none of the brothers that have come have reported or spoken any evil of you." 
Acts28:21 They said to him, “We have not received any letters from Judea concerning you, and none of the brothers that have come have reported or spoken any evil of you." 
Acts28:22 But we think it is proper to hear from you what you think. For concerning this sect, we know that it is spoken against everywhere.”" 
Acts28:23 When they had arranged a day to be with him, many came to him at his residence. From morning until evening he explained and solemnly testified of the kingdom of God to them, persuading them concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and the Prophets." 
Acts28:24 Some believed what was said, but some did not believe." 
Acts28:25 Being in disagreement with one another, they were dismissed after Paul had said one word: “The Holy Spirit accurately spoke to our fathers through Isaiah the prophet," 
Acts28:26 ‘Go to this people and say: You shall certainly hear, but never understand; and you shall certainly see, but never perceive;" 
Acts28:27 for the heart of this people has grown dull. Their ears are hard of hearing, and they have closed their eyes, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.’" 
Acts28:28 “Therefore let it be known to you that the salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. They will hear it!” 
Acts28:29 When he had said these words, the Jews departed and disputed greatly among themselves." 
Acts28:30 Paul remained two whole years in his own rented house. He welcomed all who came to him," 
Acts28:31 boldly and freely preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Romans1:1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle and set apart for the gospel of God," 
Romans1:2 which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the Holy Scriptures," 
Romans1:3 concerning His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh" 
Romans1:4 and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead." 
Romans1:5 Through Him we have received grace and apostleship for the obedience of faith among all nations for His name," 
Romans1:6 among whom you also are called by Jesus Christ: 
Romans1:7 To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Romans1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, because your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world." 
Romans1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son, that without ceasing, I mention you always in my prayers," 
Romans1:10 making request if, by any means, now at last I might find a way in the will of God to come to you." 
Romans1:11 For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, so that you may be strengthened." 
Romans1:12 This is so that I may be encouraged together with you by each other’s faith, both yours and mine." 
Romans1:13 Now I would not have you unaware, brothers, that I often intended to come to you (but was prevented until now), that I might have a harvest among you also, even as among the other Gentiles." 
Romans1:14 I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise." 
Romans1:15 So, as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome." 
Romans1:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek." 
Romans1:17 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, “The just shall live by faith.”" 
Romans1:18 The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth through unrighteousness." 
Romans1:19 For what may be known of God has been revealed in them, because God has shown it to them." 
Romans1:20 The invisible things about Him—His eternal power and deity —have been clearly seen since the creation of the world and are understood by the things that are made, so that they are without excuse." 
Romans1:21 Because, although they knew God, they did not glorify Him or give thanks to Him as God, but became futile in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened." 
Romans1:22 Claiming to be wise, they became fools." 
Romans1:23 They changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man, birds, four-footed beasts, and creeping things." 
Romans1:24 Therefore God gave them up to impurity through the lusts of their hearts, to dishonor their own bodies among themselves." 
Romans1:25 They turned the truth of God into a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen." 
Romans1:26 For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. Their women exchanged the natural function for what is against nature. 
Romans1:27 Likewise the men, leaving the natural function of the woman, burned in their lust toward one another, men with men doing that which is shameful, and receiving in themselves the due penalty of their error." 
Romans1:28 And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them over to a debased mind, to do those things which are not proper." 
Romans1:29 They were filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, and craftiness. They are gossips," 
Romans1:30 slanderers, God-haters, insolent, proud, boastful, inventors of evil things, and disobedient toward parents," 
Romans1:31 without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection, calloused, and unmerciful," 
Romans1:32 who know the righteous requirement of God, that those who commit such things are worthy of death. They not only do them, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them." 
Romans2:1 Therefore you are without excuse, O man, whoever you are who judges, for when you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you who judge do the same things." 
Romans2:2 But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who commit such things. 
Romans2:3 Do you think, O man, who judges those who do such things, and who does the same thing, that you will escape the judgment of God?" 
Romans2:4 Do you despise the riches of His goodness, tolerance, and patience, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance?" 
Romans2:5 But because of your hardness and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath against yourself on the day of wrath when the righteous judgment of God will be revealed," 
Romans2:6 and He “will render to every man according to his deeds.” 
Romans2:7 To those who by patiently doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality will be eternal life. 
Romans2:8 But for those who are contentious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be indignation and wrath." 
Romans2:9 There will be tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who does evil, to the Jew first, and then to the Gentile." 
Romans2:10 But glory, honor, and peace will be to every man who does good work —to the Jew first, and then to the Gentile," 
Romans2:11 for there is no partiality with God. 
Romans2:12 As many as have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and as many as have sinned under the law will be judged by the law," 
Romans2:13 for the hearers of the law are not justified before God, but the doers of the law will be justified." 
Romans2:14 For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, not having the law, are a law unto themselves," 
Romans2:15 who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, while their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them," 
Romans2:16 in the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Jesus Christ." 
Romans2:17 Indeed you are called a Jew, and rest on the law, and make your boast in God." 
Romans2:18 You know His will and approve the things that are more excellent, because you are instructed in the law." 
Romans2:19 You are confident that you are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness," 
Romans2:20 an instructor of the foolish, and a teacher of babes, who have the full content of knowledge and truth in the law:" 
Romans2:21 You, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?" 
Romans2:22 You who say not to commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?" 
Romans2:23 You who boast in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law?" 
Romans2:24 As it is written, “The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.”" 
Romans2:25 Circumcision indeed is of value if you keep the law, but if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision." 
Romans2:26 Therefore, if an uncircumcised man keeps the righteousness of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision?" 
Romans2:27 Will the physically uncircumcised, if he fulfills the law, not judge you who, by the letter of the law and circumcision, violate the law?" 
Romans2:28 He is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is external in the flesh." 
Romans2:29 But he is a Jew who is one inwardly. And circumcision is of the heart, by the Spirit, and not by the letter. His praise is not from men, but from God." 
Romans3:1 What advantage then does the Jew have? Or what profit is there in circumcision? 
Romans3:2 Much in every way! First of all, the oracles of God were entrusted to them." 
Romans3:3 What if some did not believe? Would their unbelief nullify the faithfulness of God? 
Romans3:4 God forbid! Let God be true, and every man a liar. As it is written: “That You may be justified in Your words, and may prevail in Your judging.”" 
Romans3:5 But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous in taking vengeance? (I am speaking in human terms.)" 
Romans3:6 God forbid! For then how could God judge the world? 
Romans3:7 If through my lie the truth of God has abounded more to His glory, why am I still being judged as a sinner?" 
Romans3:8 Why not rather say, “Let us do evil that good may come,” as we are slanderously accused and as some claim that we say? Their condemnation is just." 
Romans3:9 What then? Are we better than they? No, not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Gentiles are all under sin." 
Romans3:10 As it is written: “There is none righteous, no, not one;" 
Romans3:11 there is no one who understands; there is no one who seeks after God. 
Romans3:12 They have all turned aside; together they have become worthless; there is no one who does good, no, not one.”" 
Romans3:13 “Their throats are an open grave; with their tongues they have used deceit”; “the poison of vipers is under their lips”; 
Romans3:14 “their mouths are full of cursing and bitterness.” 
Romans3:15 “Their feet are swift to shed blood; 
Romans3:16 destruction and misery are in their paths; 
Romans3:17 and they do not know the way of peace.” 
Romans3:18 “There is no fear of God before their eyes.” 
Romans3:19 Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be silenced, and all the world may become accountable to God." 
Romans3:20 Therefore by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in His sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin." 
Romans3:21 But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God is revealed, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets." 
Romans3:22 This righteousness of God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all and upon all who believe, for there is no distinction." 
Romans3:23 For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God," 
Romans3:24 being justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus," 
Romans3:25 whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith, in His blood, for a demonstration of His righteousness, because in His forbearance God had passed over the sins previously committed," 
Romans3:26 to prove His righteousness at this present time so that He might be just and be the justifier of him who has faith in Jesus. 
Romans3:27 Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No, but by the law of faith." 
Romans3:28 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the works of the law. 
Romans3:29 Is He the God of the Jews only? Is He not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also," 
Romans3:30 seeing it is one God, who shall justify the circumcised by faith, and the uncircumcised through faith." 
Romans3:31 Do we then make the law void through faith? God forbid! Instead, we establish the law." 
Romans4:1 What then shall we say that Abraham, our father according to the flesh, has found?" 
Romans4:2 If Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God." 
Romans4:3 What does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.”" 
Romans4:4 Now to him who works, wages are not given as a gift, but as a debt." 
Romans4:5 But to him who does not work, but believes in Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness." 
Romans4:6 Even David describes the blessedness of the man to whom God credits righteousness without works: 
Romans4:7 “Blessed are those whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered;" 
Romans4:8 blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin.” 
Romans4:9 Does this blessedness then come upon the circumcised only, or upon the uncircumcised also? We are saying that faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness." 
Romans4:10 How then was it credited? When he was in circumcision? Or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision." 
Romans4:11 And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith that he had while being uncircumcised, so that he might be the father of all those who believe, though they are uncircumcised, that righteousness might be credited to them also," 
Romans4:12 and the father of circumcision to those who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had while still being uncircumcised." 
Romans4:13 It was not through the law that Abraham and his descendants received the promise that he would be the heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith." 
Romans4:14 For if those who are of the law become heirs, faith would be made void and the promise nullified," 
Romans4:15 because the law produces wrath, for where there is no law, there is no offense." 
Romans4:16 Therefore the promise comes through faith, so that it might be by grace, that the promise would be certain to all the descendants, not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all" 
Romans4:17 (as it is written, “I have made you a father of many nations”) before God whom he believed, and who raises the dead, and calls those things that do not exist as though they did." 
Romans4:18 Against all hope, he believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations according to what was spoken, “So shall your descendants be.”" 
Romans4:19 And not being weak in faith, he did not consider his own body to be dead (when he was about a hundred years old), nor yet the deadness of Sarah’s womb." 
Romans4:20 He did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God," 
Romans4:21 and being fully persuaded that what God had promised, He was able to perform." 
Romans4:22 Therefore “it was credited to him as righteousness.” 
Romans4:23 Now the words, “it was credited to him,” were not written for his sake only," 
Romans4:24 but also for us, to whom it shall be credited if we believe in Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead," 
Romans4:25 who was delivered for our transgressions, and was raised for our justification." 
Romans5:1 Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Romans5:2 through whom we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and so we rejoice in hope of the glory of God." 
Romans5:3 Not only so, but we also boast in tribulation, knowing that tribulation produces patience," 
Romans5:4 patience produces character, and character produces hope." 
Romans5:5 And hope does not disappoint, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who has been given to us." 
Romans5:6 While we were yet weak, in due time Christ died for the ungodly." 
Romans5:7 Rarely for a righteous man will one die. Yet perhaps for a good man some would even dare to die. 
Romans5:8 But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us." 
Romans5:9 How much more then, being now justified by His blood, shall we be saved from wrath through Him." 
Romans5:10 For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son, how much more, being reconciled, shall we be saved by His life!" 
Romans5:11 Furthermore, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation." 
Romans5:12 Therefore as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death has spread to all men, because all have sinned." 
Romans5:13 For until the law, sin was in the world. But sin is not counted when there is no law." 
Romans5:14 Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of Adam’s sin, who was a type of Him who was to come." 
Romans5:15 But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if through the trespass of one man many died, then how much more has the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abounded to many." 
Romans5:16 The gift is not like the result that came through the one who sinned. For the judgment from one sin led to condemnation, but the free gift, which came after many trespasses, leads to justification." 
Romans5:17 For if by one man’s trespass death reigned through him, then how much more will those who receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ." 
Romans5:18 Therefore just as through the trespass of one man came condemnation for all men, so through the righteous act of One came justification of life for all men." 
Romans5:19 For just as through one man’s disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the obedience of One the many will be made righteous." 
Romans5:20 But the law entered, so that sin might increase, but where sin increased, grace abounded much more," 
Romans5:21 so that just as sin reigned in death, grace might reign through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Romans6:1 What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may increase? 
Romans6:2 God forbid! How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? 
Romans6:3 Do you not know that we who were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into His death? 
Romans6:4 Therefore we were buried with Him by baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life." 
Romans6:5 For if we have been united with Him in the likeness of His death, so shall we also be united with Him in the likeness of His resurrection," 
Romans6:6 knowing this, that our old man has been crucified with Him, so that the body of sin might be destroyed, and we should no longer be slaves to sin." 
Romans6:7 For the one who has died is freed from sin. 
Romans6:8 Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with Him," 
Romans6:9 knowing that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death has no further dominion over Him." 
Romans6:10 For the death He died, He died to sin once for all, but the life He lives, He lives to God." 
Romans6:11 Likewise, you also consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God through Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Romans6:12 Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in its lusts." 
Romans6:13 Do not yield your members to sin as instruments of unrighteousness, but yield yourselves to God, as those who are alive from the dead, and your bodies to God as instruments of righteousness." 
Romans6:14 For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace." 
Romans6:15 What then? Shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? God forbid! 
Romans6:16 Do you not know that to whom you yield yourselves as slaves to obey, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, whether of sin leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness?" 
Romans6:17 But thanks be to God, for you were slaves of sin, but you have obeyed from the heart that form of teaching to which you were entrusted," 
Romans6:18 and having been freed from sin, you became the slaves of righteousness." 
Romans6:19 I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh, for just as you have yielded your members as slaves to impurity and iniquity leading to more iniquity, even so now yield your members as slaves to righteousness unto holiness." 
Romans6:20 For when you were the slaves of sin, you were free from righteousness." 
Romans6:21 What fruit did you have then from the things of which you are now ashamed? The result of those things is death. 
Romans6:22 But now, having been freed from sin and having become slaves of God, you have fruit unto holiness, and the end is eternal life." 
Romans6:23 For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Romans7:1 Do you not know, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law has dominion over a man as long as he lives?" 
Romans7:2 For the woman who has a husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law regarding her husband." 
Romans7:3 So then, she will be called an adulteress if she marries another man while her husband lives. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, so that she would not be an adulteress if she marries another man." 
Romans7:4 So, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may be married to another, to Him who has been raised from the dead, so that we may bear fruit for God." 
Romans7:5 When we were in the flesh, the passions of sin, through the law, worked in our members to bear fruit leading to death." 
Romans7:6 But now we are delivered from the law, having died to things in which we were bound, so that we may serve in newness of the Spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter of the law." 
Romans7:7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid! But I did not know sin, except through the law. I would not have known coveting if the law had not said, “You shall not covet.”" 
Romans7:8 But sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of coveting. For apart from the law sin is dead." 
Romans7:9 I was alive without the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died." 
Romans7:10 And the commandment, which was intended for life, proved to be death in me." 
Romans7:11 For sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and killed me through it." 
Romans7:12 So then, the law is holy and the commandment is holy and just and good." 
Romans7:13 Therefore has that which is good become death unto me? God forbid! Rather, sin, that it might be shown to be sin, was working death in me through that which is good, so that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful." 
Romans7:14 We know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin." 
Romans7:15 For what I am doing, I do not understand, for I do not practice what I will to do, but I do the very thing I hate." 
Romans7:16 But if I practice what I do not will to do, I agree with the law that it is good." 
Romans7:17 So now it is no longer I that do it, but sin that dwells in me." 
Romans7:18 For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh) dwells no good thing, for the will to do what is right is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find." 
Romans7:19 For the good I desire to do, I do not do, but the evil I do not want is what I do." 
Romans7:20 Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who does it, but sin that lives in me." 
Romans7:21 I find then a law that when I desire to do good, evil is present with me." 
Romans7:22 For I delight in the law of God according to the inner man," 
Romans7:23 but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members." 
Romans7:24 O wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death? 
Romans7:25 I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then, with my mind, I serve the law of God, but with my flesh, the law of sin." 
Romans8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit." 
Romans8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and death. 
Romans8:3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and concerning sin, He condemned sin in the flesh," 
Romans8:4 in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit." 
Romans8:5 For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit." 
Romans8:6 To be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace," 
Romans8:7 for the carnal mind is hostile toward God, for it is not subject to the law of God, nor indeed can it be," 
Romans8:8 and those who are in the flesh cannot please God. 
Romans8:9 You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God lives in you. Now if any man does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Him." 
Romans8:10 And if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is alive because of righteousness." 
Romans8:11 But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead lives in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit that lives in you." 
Romans8:12 Therefore, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh." 
Romans8:13 For if you live according to the flesh, you will die, but if through the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live." 
Romans8:14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God." 
Romans8:15 For you have not received the spirit of slavery again to fear. But you have received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “Abba, Father.”" 
Romans8:16 The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirits that we are the children of God," 
Romans8:17 and if children, then heirs: heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him, that we may also be glorified with Him." 
Romans8:18 For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed to us. 
Romans8:19 The eager expectation of the creation waits for the appearance of the sons of God. 
Romans8:20 For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but by the will of Him who subjected it, in hope" 
Romans8:21 that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption into the glorious freedom of the children of God. 
Romans8:22 We know that the whole creation groans and travails in pain together until now. 
Romans8:23 Not only that, but we also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan within ourselves while eagerly waiting for adoption, the redemption of our bodies." 
Romans8:24 For we are saved through hope, but hope that is seen is not hope, for why does a man still hope for what he sees?" 
Romans8:25 But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience." 
Romans8:26 Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weaknesses, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words." 
Romans8:27 He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to the will of God." 
Romans8:28 We know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose." 
Romans8:29 For those whom He foreknew, He predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son, so that He might be the firstborn among many brothers." 
Romans8:30 And those whom He predestined, He also called; and those whom He called, He also justified; and those whom He justified, He also glorified." 
Romans8:31 What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?" 
Romans8:32 He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?" 
Romans8:33 Who shall bring a charge against God’s elect? It is God who justifies. 
Romans8:34 Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, yes, who is risen, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us." 
Romans8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?" 
Romans8:36 As it is written: “For Your sake we are killed all day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.” 
Romans8:37 No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us." 
Romans8:38 For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, neither angels nor principalities nor powers, neither things present nor things to come," 
Romans8:39 neither height nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord." 
Romans9:1 I am speaking the truth in Christ, I am not lying; my conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit," 
Romans9:2 that I have great sorrow and continual anguish in my heart. 
Romans9:3 For I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brothers, my kinsmen by race," 
Romans9:4 who are Israelites, to whom belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises," 
Romans9:5 to whom belong the patriarchs, and from whom, according to the flesh, is Christ, who is over all, God forever blessed. Amen." 
Romans9:6 It is not as though the word of God has failed. For they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel," 
Romans9:7 nor are they all children because they are descendants of Abraham, but “In Isaac shall your descendants be called.”" 
Romans9:8 So those who are the children of the flesh are not the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as descendants." 
Romans9:9 For this is the word of promise, “At this time I will come, and Sarah shall have a son.”" 
Romans9:10 Not only that, but Rebekah also had conceived by one man, our father Isaac." 
Romans9:11 For before the children had been born, having done neither evil nor good, so that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but through Him who calls," 
Romans9:12 it was said to her, “The elder shall serve the younger.”" 
Romans9:13 As it is written, “Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated.”" 
Romans9:14 What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid! 
Romans9:15 For He says to Moses, “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”" 
Romans9:16 So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy." 
Romans9:17 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may show My power in you, and that My name may be proclaimed in all the earth.”" 
Romans9:18 Therefore He has mercy on whom He wills, and He hardens whom He wills." 
Romans9:19 You will then say to me, “Why does He yet find fault? For who can resist His will?”" 
Romans9:20 Rather, O man, who are you to answer back to God? Shall the thing formed say to him who formed it, “Why have you made me like this?”" 
Romans9:21 Does the potter not have power over the clay to make from the same lump one vessel for honor and another for dishonor? 
Romans9:22 What if God, willing to show His wrath and to make His power known, endured with much patience the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction," 
Romans9:23 in order to make known the riches of His glory on the vessels of mercy, which He previously prepared for glory," 
Romans9:24 even us, whom He has called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles?" 
Romans9:25 As indeed He says in Hosea: “I will call those who were not My people, ‘My people,’ and her who was not beloved, ‘Beloved,’ ”" 
Romans9:26 and, “In the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not My people,’ there they shall be called ‘sons of the living God.’ ”" 
Romans9:27 Isaiah also cries out concerning Israel: “Though the number of the Israelites be like the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved." 
Romans9:28 For He will finish the work, and cut it short in righteousness, because the Lord will make a quick work upon the earth.”" 
Romans9:29 And as Isaiah previously said: “Unless the Lord of Hosts had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom, and been made like Gomorrah.”" 
Romans9:30 What shall we say then? The Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, have attained righteousness, even the righteousness which is by faith," 
Romans9:31 but Israel, pursuing the law of righteousness, did not attain the law of righteousness." 
Romans9:32 Why not? Because they did not seek it by faith, but by the works of the law. For they stumbled over the stumbling stone." 
Romans9:33 As it is written: “Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone and rock of offense, and whoever believes in Him will not be ashamed.”" 
Romans10:1 Brothers, my heart’s desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved." 
Romans10:2 For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge." 
Romans10:3 For, being ignorant of God’s righteousness and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they did not submit to the righteousness of God." 
Romans10:4 Christ is the end of the law unto righteousness for everyone who believes. 
Romans10:5 For Moses writes about the righteousness which is based on the law: “The man who does those things shall live by them.” 
Romans10:6 But the righteousness which is based on faith says, “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’ ” (that is, to bring Christ down)," 
Romans10:7 “or, ‘Who will descend into the deep?’ ” (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead)." 
Romans10:8 But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart.” This is the word of faith that we preach:" 
Romans10:9 that if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved," 
Romans10:10 for with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation." 
Romans10:11 For the Scripture says, “Whoever believes in Him will not be ashamed.”" 
Romans10:12 For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord over all is generous toward all who call upon Him." 
Romans10:13 For, “Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.”" 
Romans10:14 How then shall they call on Him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? 
Romans10:15 And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written: “How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring good news of good things!”" 
Romans10:16 But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our report?”" 
Romans10:17 So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God." 
Romans10:18 But I say, have they not heard? Yes, indeed: “Their voice went into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.”" 
Romans10:19 But I say, did Israel not know? First, Moses says: “I will make you jealous by those who are not a nation, and by a foolish nation I will anger you.”" 
Romans10:20 And Isaiah is very bold and says: “I was found by those who did not seek Me; I revealed myself to those who did not ask for Me.” 
Romans10:21 But to Israel He says: “All day long I have stretched out My hands to a disobedient and contrary people.” 
Romans11:1 I say then, has God rejected His people? God forbid! For I also am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin." 
Romans11:2 God has not rejected His people whom He foreknew. Do you not know what the Scripture says of Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel, saying," 
Romans11:3 “Lord, they have killed Your prophets and destroyed Your altars. I alone am left, and they seek my life”?" 
Romans11:4 But what is the divine reply to him? “I have kept for Myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.” 
Romans11:5 So then at this present time there is a remnant according to the election of grace. 
Romans11:6 And if by grace, then it is no longer by works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace. But if it is by works, then is it no longer by grace; otherwise work would no longer be work." 
Romans11:7 What then? Israel has not obtained what it was seeking. But the elect obtained it, and the rest were hardened." 
Romans11:8 As it is written: “God has given them a spirit of slumber, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, to this very day.”" 
Romans11:9 And David says: “Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution to them." 
Romans11:10 Let their eyes be darkened, so that they may not see, and always bow down their backs.”" 
Romans11:11 I say then, have they stumbled that they should fall? God forbid! But through their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make them jealous." 
Romans11:12 Now if their transgression means riches for the world, and their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their fullness mean?" 
Romans11:13 For I am speaking to you Gentiles. So then, in as much as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry," 
Romans11:14 if by any means I may make my kinsmen jealous and might save some of them. 
Romans11:15 For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead?" 
Romans11:16 If the first portion of the dough is holy, the batch is also holy. And if the root is holy, so are the branches." 
Romans11:17 But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among them and became a partaker with them of the root and richness of the olive tree," 
Romans11:18 do not boast against the branches. If you boast, remember you do not sustain the root, but the root sustains you." 
Romans11:19 You will say then, “The branches were broken off, so that I might be grafted in.”" 
Romans11:20 This is correct. They were broken off because of unbelief, but you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear." 
Romans11:21 For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will He spare you." 
Romans11:22 Therefore consider the goodness and severity of God—severity toward those who fell, but goodness toward you, if you continue in His goodness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off." 
Romans11:23 And these also, if they do not remain in unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again." 
Romans11:24 For if you were cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, who are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?" 
Romans11:25 For I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers, lest you be wise in your own estimation, for a partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in." 
Romans11:26 And so all Israel will be saved, as it is written: “The Deliverer will come out of Zion, and He will remove ungodliness from Jacob”;" 
Romans11:27 “for this is My covenant with them, when I shall take away their sins.”" 
Romans11:28 As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but as regarding the election, they are beloved for the sake of the patriarchs." 
Romans11:29 For the gifts and calling of God are irrevocable. 
Romans11:30 For just as you once were disobedient to God, but have now received mercy through their disobedience," 
Romans11:31 so these also have now been disobedient, that they also may receive mercy by the mercy shown to you." 
Romans11:32 For God has imprisoned them all in disobedience, so that He might be merciful to all." 
Romans11:33 Oh the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments and unfathomable are His ways! 
Romans11:34 “For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has become His counselor?” 
Romans11:35 “Or who has first given to Him, and it shall be repaid to him?”" 
Romans11:36 For from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be glory forever! Amen. 
Romans12:1 I urge you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service of worship." 
Romans12:2 Do not be conformed to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is the good and acceptable and complete will of God." 
Romans12:3 For I say, through the grace given to me, to everyone among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sound judgment, according to the measure of faith God has distributed to every man." 
Romans12:4 For just as we have many parts in one body, and not all parts have the same function," 
Romans12:5 so we, being many, are one body in Christ, and all are parts of one another." 
Romans12:6 We have diverse gifts according to the grace that is given to us: if prophecy, according to the proportion of faith;" 
Romans12:7 if service, in serving; he who teaches, in teaching;" 
Romans12:8 he who exhorts, in exhortation; he who gives, with generosity; he who rules, with diligence; he who shows mercy, with cheerfulness." 
Romans12:9 Let love be without hypocrisy. Hate what is evil. Cling to what is good. 
Romans12:10 Be devoted to one another with brotherly love; prefer one another in honor," 
Romans12:11 do not be lazy in diligence, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord," 
Romans12:12 rejoice in hope, be patient in suffering, persevere in prayer," 
Romans12:13 contribute to the needs of the saints, practice hospitality." 
Romans12:14 Bless those who persecute you; bless, and do not curse." 
Romans12:15 Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep." 
Romans12:16 Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Do not pretend to be wiser than you are." 
Romans12:17 Repay no one evil for evil. Commend what is honest in the sight of all men. 
Romans12:18 If it is possible, as much as it depends on you, live peaceably with all men." 
Romans12:19 Beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to God’s wrath, for it is written: “Vengeance is Mine. I will repay,” says the Lord." 
Romans12:20 Therefore “If your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing so you will heap coals of fire on his head.”" 
Romans12:21 Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good." 
Romans13:1 Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those authorities that exist are appointed by God." 
Romans13:2 Therefore whoever resists the authority resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment." 
Romans13:3 Rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil works. Do you wish to have no fear of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from him," 
Romans13:4 for he is the servant of God for your good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is the servant of God, an avenger to execute wrath upon him who practices evil." 
Romans13:5 So it is necessary to be in subjection, not only because of wrath, but also for the sake of conscience." 
Romans13:6 For this reason you also pay taxes, for they are God’s servants, devoting themselves to this very thing." 
Romans13:7 Render therefore to all what is due them: taxes to whom taxes are due, revenue to whom revenue is due, respect to whom respect is due, and honor to whom honor is due." 
Romans13:8 Owe no one anything, except to love one another, for he who loves another has fulfilled the law." 
Romans13:9 For the commandments, “You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not give false testimony, You shall not covet,” and if there are any other commandments, are summed up in this saying, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”" 
Romans13:10 Love works no evil to a neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. 
Romans13:11 Furthermore, knowing the time, now is the moment to awake from sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we believed." 
Romans13:12 The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore let us take off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light." 
Romans13:13 Let us behave properly, as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in immorality and wickedness, not in strife and envy." 
Romans13:14 But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts." 
Romans14:1 Welcome him who is weak in faith, but not for the purpose of arguing over opinions." 
Romans14:2 For one has faith to eat all things, but he who is weak eats only vegetables." 
Romans14:3 Do not let him who eats despise him who does not eat, and do not let him who does not eat judge him who eats, for God has welcomed him." 
Romans14:4 Who are you to judge another man’s servant? To his own master he stands or falls. And he will stand, for God is able to make him stand." 
Romans14:5 One man judges one day above another; another judges every day alike. Let each one be fully persuaded in his own mind. 
Romans14:6 He who observes the day observes it for the Lord, and he who does not observe the day, to the Lord he does not observe it. He who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and the one who does not eat, in honor of the Lord he does not eat, and gives thanks to God." 
Romans14:7 For none of us lives for himself, and no one dies for himself." 
Romans14:8 For if we live, we live for the Lord. And if we die, we die for the Lord. So, whether we live or die, we are the Lord’s." 
Romans14:9 For to this end Christ died and rose and lived again, so that He might be Lord of both the dead and living." 
Romans14:10 So why do you judge your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. 
Romans14:11 For it is written: “As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every tongue shall confess to God.”" 
Romans14:12 So then each of us shall give an account of himself to God. 
Romans14:13 Therefore let us no longer pass judgment on one another, but rather determine not to put a stumbling block or an obstacle in a brother’s way." 
Romans14:14 I know and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean." 
Romans14:15 If your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food one for whom Christ died." 
Romans14:16 So do not let what is good to you be spoken of as evil. 
Romans14:17 For the kingdom of God does not mean eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit." 
Romans14:18 For he who serves Christ in these things is acceptable to God and approved by men. 
Romans14:19 Therefore let us pursue the things which produce peace and the things that build up one another. 
Romans14:20 Do not destroy the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but it is evil for the man who causes someone to fall by what he eats." 
Romans14:21 It is good neither to eat meat nor drink wine, nor do anything whereby your brother stumbles or is offended or is made weak." 
Romans14:22 The faith that you have, have as your own conviction before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves." 
Romans14:23 But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it is not from faith, for whatever is not from faith is sin." 
Romans15:1 We who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of the weak and not please ourselves. 
Romans15:2 Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, leading to edification." 
Romans15:3 For even Christ did not please Himself. But as it is written, “The insults of those who insulted You fell on Me.”" 
Romans15:4 For whatever was previously written was written for our instruction, so that through perseverance and encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope." 
Romans15:5 Now may the God of perseverance and encouragement grant you to live in harmony with one another in accordance with Christ Jesus," 
Romans15:6 so that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Romans15:7 Therefore welcome one another, just as Christ also welcomed us, for the glory of God." 
Romans15:8 Now I say that Jesus Christ has become a servant to the circumcised on behalf of the truth of God, to confirm the promises made to the patriarchs," 
Romans15:9 and that the Gentiles might glorify God for His mercy, as it is written: “For this reason I will acknowledge You among the Gentiles, and I will sing praises to Your name.”" 
Romans15:10 He also says: “Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people!”" 
Romans15:11 And again: “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles; let all the peoples praise Him.”" 
Romans15:12 And again Isaiah says: “There shall be a Root of Jesse; He who shall rise to reign over the Gentiles, in Him shall the Gentiles hope.”" 
Romans15:13 Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Spirit." 
Romans15:14 Now I myself am persuaded concerning you, my brothers, that you also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and also able to instruct one another." 
Romans15:15 Nevertheless, brothers, I have written even more boldly to you on some points, to remind you, because of the grace that is given to me from God," 
Romans15:16 that I might be a minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, in the priestly service of the gospel of God, so that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Spirit." 
Romans15:17 In Christ Jesus therefore I have reason to boast in my service to God. 
Romans15:18 For I will not dare to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word and deed," 
Romans15:19 by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and as far around as Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ." 
Romans15:20 So I have strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, so that I should not build on another man’s foundation." 
Romans15:21 But as it is written: “To whom He was not announced, they shall see; and those who have not heard shall understand.”" 
Romans15:22 For this reason also I was often hindered from coming to you. 
Romans15:23 But now, no longer having a place in these regions, and having a great desire for many years to come to you," 
Romans15:24 whenever I go to Spain, I shall come to you, for I hope to see you when I pass through and to be helped on my way there by you, when I have first enjoyed your company for a little while." 
Romans15:25 But now I am going to Jerusalem to minister to the saints. 
Romans15:26 For Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints who are in Jerusalem. 
Romans15:27 It has pleased them indeed, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been partakers of their spiritual things, they also ought to minister to them in material things." 
Romans15:28 Therefore, when I have completed this and have given this blessing to them, I shall come by way of you to Spain," 
Romans15:29 and I know that when I come to you, I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ." 
Romans15:30 Now I ask you, brothers, through the Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf," 
Romans15:31 that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea, and that my ministry for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints," 
Romans15:31 that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea, and that my ministry for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints," 
Romans15:32 so that I may come to you with joy by the will of God, and may be refreshed together with you." 
Romans15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen. 
Romans16:1 I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant of the church at Cenchrea," 
Romans16:2 that you welcome her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and that you assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you, for she has been a helper of many and of myself as well." 
Romans16:3 Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus," 
Romans16:4 who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only I, but also all the churches of the Gentiles, give thanks." 
Romans16:5 Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Greet my beloved Epaenetus, who is the first convert of Achaia for Christ." 
Romans16:6 Greet Mary, who labored much for us." 
Romans16:7 Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and fellow prisoners, who are noteworthy among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me." 
Romans16:8 Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord." 
Romans16:9 Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stachys." 
Romans16:10 Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus." 
Romans16:11 Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those who are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord." 
Romans16:12 Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who also labored much in the Lord." 
Romans16:13 Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother, who is like a mother to me." 
Romans16:14 Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them." 
Romans16:15 Greet Philologus, Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them." 
Romans16:16 Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you. 
Romans16:17 Now I urge you, brothers, to closely watch those who cause divisions and offenses, contrary to the teaching which you have learned, and avoid them." 
Romans16:18 For such people do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own appetites, and through smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting." 
Romans16:19 Your obedience has become known to all men. Therefore I am glad on your behalf. Yet I want you to be wise in what is good, and innocent in what is evil." 
Romans16:20 The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
Romans16:21 Timothy, my fellow worker, and Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, greet you." 
Romans16:22 I, Tertius, who wrote this epistle, greet you in the Lord." 
Romans16:23 Gaius, who is host to me and to the whole church, greets you. Erastus, who is the city treasurer, and our brother Quartus greet you." 
Romans16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
Romans16:25 Now to Him who has power to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret for long ages past," 
Romans16:26 but now is revealed by the prophetic Scriptures according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all the Gentiles for the obedience of faith," 
Romans16:27 to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, be glory forever! Amen." 
1Corinthians1:1 Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes, our brother," 
1Corinthians1:2 To the church of God which is at Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all who in every place call on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both their Lord and ours:" 
1Corinthians1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
1Corinthians1:4 I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which has been given to you through Jesus Christ. 
1Corinthians1:5 By Him you are enriched in everything, in all speech and in all knowledge," 
1Corinthians1:6 even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you," 
1Corinthians1:7 so that you are not lacking in any gift while waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
1Corinthians1:8 He will strengthen you to the end, so that you may be blameless on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians1:9 God is faithful, and by Him you were called to the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord." 
1Corinthians1:10 Now I ask you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak in agreement and that there be no divisions among you. But be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment." 
1Corinthians1:11 For it has been declared to me concerning you, my brothers, by those who are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you." 
1Corinthians1:12 Now this is what I mean: Every one of you is saying, “I am of Paul,” or “I am of Apollos,” or “I am of Cephas,” or “I am of Christ.”" 
1Corinthians1:13 Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? 
1Corinthians1:14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius," 
1Corinthians1:15 lest any should say that I had baptized in my own name. 
1Corinthians1:16 I also baptized the household of Stephanas. Besides them, I do not know whether I baptized any other." 
1Corinthians1:17 For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with eloquent words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect." 
1Corinthians1:18 For to those who are perishing, the preaching of the cross is foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God." 
1Corinthians1:19 For it is written: “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.”" 
1Corinthians1:20 Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has God not made the wisdom of this world foolish? 
1Corinthians1:21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of preaching to save those who believe." 
1Corinthians1:22 For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom." 
1Corinthians1:23 But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to the Jews and foolishness to the Greeks." 
1Corinthians1:24 But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, we preach Christ as the power of God and the wisdom of God." 
1Corinthians1:25 For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men." 
1Corinthians1:26 For observe your calling, brothers. Among you, not many wise men according to the flesh, not many mighty men, and not many noble men were called." 
1Corinthians1:27 But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. 
1Corinthians1:28 And God has chosen the inferior things of the world and things which are despised. Yes, and He chose things which are nothing to nullify the things that are," 
1Corinthians1:29 so that no flesh should boast in His presence. 
1Corinthians1:30 But because of Him you are in Christ Jesus, whom God made unto us wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption." 
1Corinthians1:31 Therefore, as it is written, “Let him who boasts, boast in the Lord.”" 
1Corinthians2:1 Brothers, when I came to you, I did not come with superiority of speech or wisdom, declaring to you the testimony of God." 
1Corinthians2:2 For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. 
1Corinthians2:3 I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. 
1Corinthians2:4 My speech and my preaching were not with enticing words of man’s wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power," 
1Corinthians2:5 so that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." 
1Corinthians2:6 Yet we speak wisdom among those who are mature, although not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing." 
1Corinthians2:7 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the ages for our glory." 
1Corinthians2:8 None of the rulers of this age knew it. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory." 
1Corinthians2:9 But as it is written, “Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love Him.”" 
1Corinthians2:10 But God has revealed them to us by His Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God." 
1Corinthians2:11 For what man knows the things of a man, except the spirit of man which is in him? Likewise, no one knows the things of God, except the Spirit of God." 
1Corinthians2:12 Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, so that we might know the things that are freely given to us by God." 
1Corinthians2:13 These things also we proclaim, not in the words which man’s wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual." 
1Corinthians2:14 But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him; nor can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned." 
1Corinthians2:15 But he who is spiritual judges all things. Yet he himself is not judged by anyone. 
1Corinthians2:16 For “who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct Him?” But we have the mind of Christ. 
1Corinthians3:1 Brothers, I could not speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to worldly, even as to babes in Christ." 
1Corinthians3:2 I have fed you with milk and not with solid food. For to this day you were not able to endure it. Nor are you able now," 
1Corinthians3:3 for you are still worldly. For while there is envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not worldly and behaving as mere men?" 
1Corinthians3:4 For while one says, “I am of Paul,” and another, “I am of Apollos,” are you not worldly?" 
1Corinthians3:5 Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to each one?" 
1Corinthians3:6 I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase." 
1Corinthians3:7 So then neither is he who plants nor he who waters anything, but God who gives the increase." 
1Corinthians3:8 Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive his own reward according to his own labor." 
1Corinthians3:9 For we are laborers together with God: You are God’s field; you are God’s building. 
1Corinthians3:10 According to the grace of God which has been given to me, as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, but another builds on it. Now let each one take heed how he builds on it." 
1Corinthians3:11 For no one can lay another foundation than that which was laid, which is Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians3:12 Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, or stubble," 
1Corinthians3:13 each one’s work will be revealed. For the Day will declare it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each has done." 
1Corinthians3:14 If anyone’s work which he has built on the foundation endures, he will receive a reward." 
1Corinthians3:15 If anyone’s work is burned, he will suffer loss. But he himself will be saved, but only as through fire." 
1Corinthians3:16 Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?" 
1Corinthians3:17 If anyone defiles the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy. And you are His temple." 
1Corinthians3:18 Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may be wise." 
1Corinthians3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, “He catches the wise in their own craftiness,”" 
1Corinthians3:20 and again, “The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain.”" 
1Corinthians3:21 Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours: 
1Corinthians3:22 whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all are yours," 
1Corinthians3:23 and you are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s." 
1Corinthians4:1 Let a man so regard us as the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. 
1Corinthians4:2 Moreover it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. 
1Corinthians4:3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by man’s judgment. I do not even judge myself. 
1Corinthians4:4 For I know nothing against myself. Yet I am not justified by this. But He who judges me is the Lord. 
1Corinthians4:5 Therefore judge nothing before the appointed time until the Lord comes. He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and will reveal the purposes of the hearts. Then everyone will have commendation from God. 
1Corinthians4:6 Brothers, I have figuratively applied these things to myself and to Apollos for your sakes, so that you may learn from us not to think of men above that which is written, and that not one of you would be arrogant for one against another." 
1Corinthians4:7 For who makes you differ from another? And what do you have that you did not receive? Now if you received it, why do you boast as if you had not received it?" 
1Corinthians4:8 Now you are full! Now you are rich! You have begun reigning as kings without us! And I would that you did reign, so that we also might reign with you." 
1Corinthians4:9 For I think that God has exhibited us, the apostles, last, as if we were sentenced to death. For we have been made a spectacle to the world, to angels and to men." 
1Corinthians4:10 We are fools for Christ’s sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are honorable, but we are despised." 
1Corinthians4:11 Even to this present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are poorly clothed and beaten and homeless." 
1Corinthians4:12 We labor, working with our own hands. Being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted, we endure." 
1Corinthians4:13 Being slandered, we encourage. We are made as the filth of the world, and are the refuse of all things to this day." 
1Corinthians4:14 I do not write these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you." 
1Corinthians4:15 For if you were to have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet you do not have many fathers. In Christ Jesus I have become a father to you through the gospel." 
1Corinthians4:16 So I implore you, be followers of me." 
1Corinthians4:17 Therefore I have sent Timothy to you. He is my beloved son and is faithful in the Lord. He will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church." 
1Corinthians4:18 Now some are arrogant, as though I were not coming to you." 
1Corinthians4:19 But I will come to you shortly if the Lord wills. And I will know not only what those who are arrogant are saying, but also their power." 
1Corinthians4:20 For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power." 
1Corinthians4:21 What do you desire? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and in the spirit of meekness?" 
1Corinthians5:1 It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such immorality as is not even named among the Gentiles, that a man has his father’s wife." 
1Corinthians5:2 But you are arrogant. Instead you should have mourned, so that he who has done this deed might be removed from among you." 
1Corinthians5:3 For indeed, though absent in body but present in spirit, I have already, as if I were present, judged him who has done this deed," 
1Corinthians5:4 in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. When you are assembled, along with my spirit, in the power of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Corinthians5:5 deliver him to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that the spirit may be saved on the day of the Lord Jesus." 
1Corinthians5:6 Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little yeast leavens the whole batch? 
1Corinthians5:7 Therefore purge out the old yeast, that you may be a new batch, since you are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed for us." 
1Corinthians5:8 Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old yeast, nor with the yeast of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth." 
1Corinthians5:9 I wrote to you in my letter not to keep company with sexually immoral people. 
1Corinthians5:10 Yet I did not mean the sexually immoral people of this world, or the covetous and extortioners, or the idolaters, since you would then need to go out of the world." 
1Corinthians5:11 But I have written to you not to keep company with any man who is called a brother, who is sexually immoral, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or an extortioner. Do not even eat with such a person." 
1Corinthians5:12 For what have I to do with judging those also who are outside? Do you not judge those who are inside? 
1Corinthians5:13 But God judges those who are outside. Therefore “put away from among yourselves that wicked person.” 
1Corinthians6:1 Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to the law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?" 
1Corinthians6:2 Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? If the world will be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters?" 
1Corinthians6:3 Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more the things that pertain to this life? 
1Corinthians6:4 If then you have judgments dealing with matters of this life, do you appoint as judges those who are least esteemed in the church?" 
1Corinthians6:5 I speak to your shame. Is it true that there is not even one wise man among you who shall be able to judge between his brothers? 
1Corinthians6:6 But brother goes to the law against brother, and before unbelievers, at that." 
1Corinthians6:7 Now therefore it is already an utter failure for you that you go to law against one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? 
1Corinthians6:8 But you yourselves do wrong and defraud, and do this to your brothers." 
1Corinthians6:9 Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor male prostitutes, nor homosexuals," 
1Corinthians6:10 nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God." 
1Corinthians6:11 Such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, and you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus by the Spirit of our God." 
1Corinthians6:12 “All things are lawful to me,” but not all things are helpful. “All things are lawful for me,” but I will not be brought under the power of anything." 
1Corinthians6:13 “Food is for the belly, and the belly is for food,” but God will destroy both of them. Now the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body." 
1Corinthians6:14 God has raised up the Lord and will also raise us up by His own power. 
1Corinthians6:15 Do you not know that your bodies are the parts of Christ? Shall I then take the parts of Christ and make them the parts of a harlot? God forbid! 
1Corinthians6:16 What? Do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her? For “the two,” He says, “shall become one flesh.”" 
1Corinthians6:17 But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with Him. 
1Corinthians6:18 Escape from sexual immorality. Every sin that a man commits is outside the body. But he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. 
1Corinthians6:19 What? Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God, and that you are not your own?" 
1Corinthians6:20 You were bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God’s." 
1Corinthians7:1 Now concerning the things about which you wrote to me: “It is good for a man not to touch a woman.” 
1Corinthians7:2 Nevertheless, because of sexual immorality, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband." 
1Corinthians7:3 Let the husband render to the wife due affection, and likewise the wife to the husband." 
1Corinthians7:4 The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does." 
1Corinthians7:5 Do not deprive one another except with consent for a time, that you may give yourselves to fasting and prayer. Then come together again, so that Satan does not tempt you for lack of self-control." 
1Corinthians7:6 I speak this as a concession and not as a command. 
1Corinthians7:7 For I wish that all men were even as I myself. But every man has his proper gift from God, one after this manner and another after that." 
1Corinthians7:8 I say to the unmarried and widows that it is good for them if they live even as I am. 
1Corinthians7:9 But if they cannot restrain themselves, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion." 
1Corinthians7:10 Now to the married I command, not I, but the Lord, do not let the wife depart from her husband." 
1Corinthians7:11 But if she departs, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. And do not let the husband divorce his wife." 
1Corinthians7:12 To the rest I speak, not the Lord: If any brother has an unbelieving wife who consents to live with him, he should not divorce her." 
1Corinthians7:13 And if the woman has an unbelieving husband who consents to live with her, she should not divorce him." 
1Corinthians7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean. But now they are holy." 
1Corinthians7:15 But if the unbeliever departs, let that one depart. A brother or a sister is not bound in such cases. God has called us to peace." 
1Corinthians7:16 For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?" 
1Corinthians7:17 But as God has given to every man and as the Lord has called every man, so let him walk. This I command in all churches." 
1Corinthians7:18 Is any man called while circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Is any man called while uncircumcised? Let him not be circumcised. 
1Corinthians7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God is everything." 
1Corinthians7:20 Let each man remain in the same condition in which he was called. 
1Corinthians7:21 Were you called while a servant? Do not worry about it. But if you may become free, do so." 
1Corinthians7:22 For he who is called in the Lord while a servant is the Lord’s freeman. Likewise, he who is called while free is Christ’s servant." 
1Corinthians7:23 You were bought at a price. Do not be the servants of men. 
1Corinthians7:24 Brothers, let every man, in whatever condition he is called, remain there with God." 
1Corinthians7:25 Now concerning those not having married, I have no command from the Lord. Yet I will give my judgment as one who has obtained mercy from the Lord to be faithful." 
1Corinthians7:26 I suppose therefore that this is good because of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is." 
1Corinthians7:27 Are you committed to a wife? Do not seek to be uncommitted. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife. 
1Corinthians7:28 But if you marry, you have not sinned. And if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Nevertheless they will have trouble in this life, but I would spare you that." 
1Corinthians7:29 But this I say, brothers, the time is short. It remains that those who have wives should be as though they had none;" 
1Corinthians7:30 those who weep, as though they did not weep; those who rejoice, as though they did not rejoice; those who buy, as though they possessed nothing;" 
1Corinthians7:31 and those who use this world, as though they did not make full use of it. For the form of this world is passing away." 
1Corinthians7:32 But I prefer that you have no concern. He who is unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:33 But he who is married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife." 
1Corinthians7:34 There is a difference between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy in body and in spirit. But she who is married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband." 
1Corinthians7:35 I say this for your own benefit, not to put any restraint upon you, but for what is proper, and that you may serve the Lord without distraction." 
1Corinthians7:36 If any man thinks that he is behaving improperly toward his unmarried woman, and if she is past the bloom of her youth, and passions so require, let him do what he will. He does not sin. Let them marry." 
1Corinthians7:37 Nevertheless he who stands steadfast in his heart without necessity, and has power over his own will, and has so decreed in his heart that he will keep his virgin, does well." 
1Corinthians7:38 So then he who gives her in marriage does well, but he who gives her not in marriage does better." 
1Corinthians7:39 The wife is bound by the law as long as her husband lives. But if her husband dies, she is at liberty to be married to whom she will, but only in the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:40 But in my judgment she is happier if she so remains as she is. And I think that I have the Spirit of God. 
1Corinthians8:1 Now as concerning food offered to idols: We know that “we all have knowledge.” Knowledge produces arrogance, but love edifies." 
1Corinthians8:2 So if anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing yet as he ought to know." 
1Corinthians8:3 But if anyone loves God, this one is known by Him." 
1Corinthians8:4 So concerning the eating of foods that are offered in sacrifice to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no other God but one." 
1Corinthians8:5 For there are those who are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there are many gods and many lords." 
1Corinthians8:6 But for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist. And there is one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist." 
1Corinthians8:7 However, not everyone has this knowledge. Some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat the food as a thing offered to an idol. So their weak conscience is defiled." 
1Corinthians8:8 But food does not commend us to God. Neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do not eat are we the worse." 
1Corinthians8:9 But take heed, lest by any means this liberty of yours becomes a stumbling block to those who are weak." 
1Corinthians8:10 For if anyone sees you, who have knowledge, eating in the idol’s temple, shall the conscience of him who is weak not be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols," 
1Corinthians8:11 and by your knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died?" 
1Corinthians8:12 When you thus sin against the brothers, wounding their weak conscience, you sin against Christ." 
1Corinthians8:13 Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I cause my brother to stumble." 
1Corinthians9:1 Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? 
1Corinthians9:2 If I am not an apostle to others, yet indeed I am to you. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord." 
1Corinthians9:3 This is my answer to those who examine me. 
1Corinthians9:4 Do we have no right to eat and to drink? 
1Corinthians9:5 Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife as do other apostles, the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas?" 
1Corinthians9:6 Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working? 
1Corinthians9:7 Who goes to war at any time at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard, but does not eat of its fruit? Or who feeds a flock, but does not drink of the flock’s milk?" 
1Corinthians9:8 Do I say these things as a man? Or does the law not say the same thing also? 
1Corinthians9:9 For it is written in the Law of Moses, “You shall not muzzle the mouth of the ox while it treads out the grain.” Is God concerned about oxen?" 
1Corinthians9:10 Or does He say it completely for our sake? For our sake, no doubt, this is written so that he who plows should plow in hope, and that he who threshes in hope should partake of his hope." 
1Corinthians9:11 If we have sown for you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your material things?" 
1Corinthians9:12 If others partake of this right over you, should not we instead? Nevertheless, we have not used this right, but suffer all things, lest we might hinder the gospel of Christ." 
1Corinthians9:13 Do you not know that those who minister unto holy things live from the things of the temple? And do you not know that those who wait at the altar partake of the altar? 
1Corinthians9:14 In the same way, the Lord has ordained that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel." 
1Corinthians9:15 But I have used none of these rights, nor have I written these things that it should be so done to me. For it would be better for me to die than allow anyone to make my boasting void." 
1Corinthians9:16 Though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of, for the requirement is laid upon me. Yes, woe unto me if I do not preach the gospel!" 
1Corinthians9:17 So if I do this willingly, I have a reward, but if against my will, I have been entrusted with a commission." 
1Corinthians9:18 What is my reward then? Truly that when I preach the gospel, I may present the gospel of Christ without charge, so that I may not abuse my authority in the gospel." 
1Corinthians9:19 For though I am free from all men, I have made myself servant to all, that I might win even more." 
1Corinthians9:20 To the Jews, I became as a Jew, that I might win the Jews; to those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law;" 
1Corinthians9:21 to those who are outside the law, as outside the law (though not without God’s law, but under Christ’s law) that I might win those who are outside the law." 
1Corinthians9:22 To the weak, I became as weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men, that I might by all means save some." 
1Corinthians9:23 This I do for the gospel’s sake, that I might partake of it with you." 
1Corinthians9:24 Do you not know that all those who run in a race run, but one receives the prize? So run, that you may obtain it." 
1Corinthians9:25 Everyone who strives for the prize exercises self-control in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible one." 
1Corinthians9:26 So, therefore, I run, not with uncertainty. So I fight, not as one who beats the air." 
1Corinthians9:27 But I bring and keep my body under subjection, lest when preaching to others I myself should be disqualified." 
1Corinthians10:1 I would not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea," 
1Corinthians10:2 and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea; 
1Corinthians10:3 all ate the same spiritual food; 
1Corinthians10:4 and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ." 
1Corinthians10:5 But with many of them God was not well pleased, and they were overthrown in the wilderness." 
1Corinthians10:6 Now these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they lusted. 
1Corinthians10:7 Neither be idolaters as were some of them. As it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to revel.”" 
1Corinthians10:8 Neither let us commit sexual immorality as some of them committed, when twenty-three thousand fell in one day." 
1Corinthians10:9 Neither let us test Christ, as some of them also tempted and were destroyed by serpents." 
1Corinthians10:10 Neither murmur, as some of them also murmured and were destroyed by the destroyer." 
1Corinthians10:11 Now all these things happened to them for examples. They are written as an admonition to us, upon whom the end of the ages has come." 
1Corinthians10:12 Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed, lest he fall." 
1Corinthians10:13 No temptation has taken you except what is common to man. God is faithful, and He will not permit you to be tempted above what you can endure, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that you may be able to bear it." 
1Corinthians10:14 So, my beloved, flee from idolatry." 
1Corinthians10:15 I speak as to wise men. Judge for yourselves what I say. 
1Corinthians10:16 The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?" 
1Corinthians10:17 For we, being many, are one bread and one body, for we are all partakers of that one bread." 
1Corinthians10:18 Consider Israel after the flesh: Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? 
1Corinthians10:19 What am I saying then, that the idol is anything or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything?" 
1Corinthians10:20 But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God. I do not want you to have fellowship with demons." 
1Corinthians10:21 You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot be partakers of the Lord’s table and of the table of demons. 
1Corinthians10:22 Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? 
1Corinthians10:23 “All things are lawful for me,” but not all things are helpful. “All things are lawful for me,” but not all things edify." 
1Corinthians10:24 Let no one seek his own, but each one the other’s well-being." 
1Corinthians10:25 Eat whatever is sold in the meat market, asking no question for the sake of conscience," 
1Corinthians10:26 for “The earth is the Lord’s, and everything in it.”" 
1Corinthians10:27 If any of those who do not believe invite you to a feast, and you desire to go, eat whatever is set before you, asking no question for the sake of conscience." 
1Corinthians10:28 But if anyone says to you, “This was offered in sacrifice to idols,” do not eat it for the sake of him that mentioned it and for the sake of conscience, for “The earth is the Lord’s, and everything in it.”" 
1Corinthians10:29 Conscience, I say, not your own, but that of the other. For why is my liberty judged by another man’s conscience?" 
1Corinthians10:30 If I partake with thankfulness, why am I slandered concerning that for which I give thanks?" 
1Corinthians10:31 Therefore, whether you eat, or drink, or whatever you do, do it all to the glory of God." 
1Corinthians10:32 Give no offense, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God," 
1Corinthians10:33 just as I try to please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved." 
1Corinthians11:1 Follow me as I follow Christ. 
1Corinthians11:2 I praise you, brothers, that you remember me in all things and keep the traditions as I delivered them to you." 
1Corinthians11:3 But I would have you know that the head of the woman is the man, the head of every man is Christ, and the head of Christ is God." 
1Corinthians11:4 Every man praying or prophesying having his head covered dishonors his head," 
1Corinthians11:5 but every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head, for that is the same as if she were shaved." 
1Corinthians11:6 For if the woman is not covered, let her also cut off her hair. But if it is a shame for a woman to have her hair cut off or shaved, let her be covered." 
1Corinthians11:7 For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, because he is the image and glory of God. But the woman is the glory of the man." 
1Corinthians11:8 The man is not from the woman, but the woman from the man." 
1Corinthians11:9 The man was not created for the woman, but the woman for the man." 
1Corinthians11:10 For this reason the woman ought to have authority over her head, because of the angels." 
1Corinthians11:11 Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, nor the woman without the man in the Lord." 
1Corinthians11:12 For just as the woman came from the man, so the man comes through the woman, but all things come from God." 
1Corinthians11:13 Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God uncovered? 
1Corinthians11:14 Does not nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair it is a shame to him? 
1Corinthians11:15 But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given her for a covering." 
1Corinthians11:16 But if anyone seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor have the churches of God." 
1Corinthians11:17 Now in giving these instructions I do not praise you, because you come together not for the better, but for the worse." 
1Corinthians11:18 First of all, when you come together as the church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it." 
1Corinthians11:19 For there must also be factions among you so that those who are genuine may become evident among you. 
1Corinthians11:20 Therefore, when you come together into one place, it is not to eat the Lord’s Supper." 
1Corinthians11:21 For in eating, each one eats his own supper ahead of others. One goes hungry, and another becomes drunk." 
1Corinthians11:22 What? Do you not have houses to eat and to drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. 
1Corinthians11:23 For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you: that the Lord Jesus, on the night in which He was betrayed, took bread." 
1Corinthians11:24 When He had given thanks, He broke it and said, “Take and eat. This is My body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of Me.”" 
1Corinthians11:25 In the same manner He took the cup after He had supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.”" 
1Corinthians11:26 As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until He comes." 
1Corinthians11:27 Therefore whoever eats this bread and drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 
1Corinthians11:28 Let a man examine himself, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup." 
1Corinthians11:29 For he who eats and drinks unworthily, eats and drinks damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body." 
1Corinthians11:30 For this reason many are weak and unhealthy among you, and many die." 
1Corinthians11:31 If we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged." 
1Corinthians11:32 But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord, so that we would not be condemned with the world." 
1Corinthians11:33 So, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another." 
1Corinthians11:34 If anyone hungers, let him eat at home, so that you may not come together into condemnation. I will set the rest in order when I come." 
1Corinthians12:1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant." 
1Corinthians12:2 You know that you were Gentiles, carried away to mute idols, however you were led." 
1Corinthians12:3 Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, “Jesus be cursed!” And no one can say, “Jesus is the Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:4 There are various gifts, but the same Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:5 There are different ministries, but the same Lord." 
1Corinthians12:6 There are various activities, but it is the same God who operates all of them in all people." 
1Corinthians12:7 But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to everyone for the common good. 
1Corinthians12:8 To one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit," 
1Corinthians12:9 to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit," 
1Corinthians12:10 to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, and to another the interpretation of tongues." 
1Corinthians12:11 But that one and very same Spirit works all these, dividing to each one individually as He will." 
1Corinthians12:12 For as the body is one and has many parts, and all the many parts of that one body are one body, so also is Christ." 
1Corinthians12:13 For by one Spirit we are all baptized into one body, whether we are Jews or Gentiles, whether we are slaves or free, and we have all been made to drink of one Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:14 The body is not one part, but many." 
1Corinthians12:15 If the foot says, “Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body,” is it therefore not of the body?" 
1Corinthians12:16 And if the ear says, “Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body,” is it therefore not of the body?" 
1Corinthians12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole body were hearing, where would the sense of smell be?" 
1Corinthians12:18 But now God has established the parts, every one of them, in the body as it has pleased Him." 
1Corinthians12:19 If they were all one part, where would the body be?" 
1Corinthians12:20 So there are many parts, yet one body." 
1Corinthians12:21 The eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need of you,” nor the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.”" 
1Corinthians12:22 No, those parts of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary." 
1Corinthians12:23 And those parts of the body which we think are less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor. And our less respectable parts are treated with much more respect," 
1Corinthians12:24 whereas our more respectable parts have no need of this. But God has composed the body, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacks it," 
1Corinthians12:25 so that there should be no division in the body, but that the parts should have the same care for one another." 
1Corinthians12:26 If one part suffers, all the parts suffer with it, and if one part is honored, all the parts rejoice with it." 
1Corinthians12:27 Now you are the body of Christ and members individually. 
1Corinthians12:28 God has put these in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, and various tongues." 
1Corinthians12:29 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? 
1Corinthians12:30 Do all have the gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 
1Corinthians12:31 But earnestly desire the greater gifts. Yet I show you a more excellent way. 
1Corinthians13:1 If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not love, I have become as sounding brass or a clanging cymbal." 
1Corinthians13:2 If I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not love, I am nothing." 
1Corinthians13:3 If I give all my goods to feed the poor, and if I give my body to be burned, and have not love, it profits me nothing." 
1Corinthians13:4 Love suffers long and is kind; love envies not; love flaunts not itself and is not puffed up," 
1Corinthians13:5 does not behave itself improperly, seeks not its own, is not easily provoked, thinks no evil;" 
1Corinthians13:6 rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth;" 
1Corinthians13:7 bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, and endures all things." 
1Corinthians13:8 Love never fails. But if there are prophecies, they shall fail; if there are tongues, they shall cease; and if there is knowledge, it shall vanish." 
1Corinthians13:9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in part." 
1Corinthians13:10 But when that which is perfect comes, then that which is imperfect shall pass away." 
1Corinthians13:11 When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, and I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things." 
1Corinthians13:12 For now we see as through a glass, dimly, but then, face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know, even as I also am known." 
1Corinthians13:13 So now abide faith, hope, and love, these three. But the greatest of these is love." 
1Corinthians14:1 Follow after love and desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy." 
1Corinthians14:2 For he who speaks in an unknown tongue does not speak to men, but to God. For no one understands him, although in the spirit, he speaks mysteries." 
1Corinthians14:3 But he who prophesies speaks to men for their edification and exhortation and comfort. 
1Corinthians14:4 He who speaks in an unknown tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church." 
1Corinthians14:5 I desire that you all speak in tongues, but even more that you prophesy. For greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the church may receive edification." 
1Corinthians14:6 Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what shall I profit you, unless I speak to you by revelation or knowledge or prophesying or teaching?" 
1Corinthians14:7 Even when things without life give sound, whether flute or harp, how will it be known what is played unless they give a distinction in the sounds?" 
1Corinthians14:8 If the trumpet makes an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for the battle?" 
1Corinthians14:9 So also you, unless with the tongue you speak words easy to understand, how will it be known what is spoken? For you shall speak into the air." 
1Corinthians14:10 There are, it may be, so many kinds of languages in the world, and none of them is without significance." 
1Corinthians14:11 Therefore, if I do not know the meaning of the speech, I shall be a barbarian to him who speaks, and he who speaks will be a barbarian to me." 
1Corinthians14:12 So, seeing that you are zealous concerning spiritual gifts, seek that you may excel in the edifying of the church." 
1Corinthians14:13 Let him who speaks in an unknown tongue pray that he may interpret. 
1Corinthians14:14 For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unproductive." 
1Corinthians14:15 What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding." 
1Corinthians14:16 Otherwise, when you bless with the spirit, how will he who does not understand say “Amen” at your giving of thanks, seeing he does not understand what you say?" 
1Corinthians14:17 For you indeed give thanks well, but the other is not edified." 
1Corinthians14:18 I thank my God that I speak in tongues more than you all. 
1Corinthians14:19 Yet in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that by my voice I might teach others also, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue." 
1Corinthians14:20 Brothers, do not be children in your thinking; rather be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature." 
1Corinthians14:21 In the law it is written: “With men of other tongues and other lips I will speak to this people; but even then they will not hear Me,” says the Lord." 
1Corinthians14:22 So tongues are for a sign, not to believers, but to unbelievers. But prophesying does not serve unbelievers, but believers." 
1Corinthians14:23 Therefore if the whole church assembles in one place and all speak with tongues, and those who are unlearned or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your mind?" 
1Corinthians14:24 But if all prophesy and there comes in one who does not believe or one unlearned, he is convinced by all and judged by all." 
1Corinthians14:25 Thus the secrets of his heart are revealed. And so falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you." 
1Corinthians14:26 How is it then, brothers? When you come together, every one of you has a psalm, a teaching, a tongue, a revelation, and an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification." 
1Corinthians14:27 If anyone speaks in an unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at the most by three, and each in turn, and let one interpret." 
1Corinthians14:28 But if there is no interpreter, let him remain silent in the church, and let him speak to himself and to God." 
1Corinthians14:29 Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others judge." 
1Corinthians14:30 If anything is revealed to another who sits by, let the first keep silent." 
1Corinthians14:31 For you may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn and all may be encouraged." 
1Corinthians14:32 The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets. 
1Corinthians14:33 For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints." 
1Corinthians14:34 Let your women remain silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak. They are commanded to be under obedience, as the law also says." 
1Corinthians14:35 If they will learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home, for it is a shame for women to speak in the church." 
1Corinthians14:36 What? Did the word of God come from you? Or did it come to you only? 
1Corinthians14:37 If anyone thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that what I am writing you is a command of the Lord." 
1Corinthians14:38 But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant." 
1Corinthians14:39 Therefore, brothers, eagerly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues." 
1Corinthians14:40 Let all things be done decently and in order. 
1Corinthians15:1 Now, brothers, I declare to you the gospel which I preached to you, which you have received, and in which you stand." 
1Corinthians15:2 Through it you are saved, if you keep in memory what I preached to you, unless you have believed in vain." 
1Corinthians15:3 For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received: how Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures," 
1Corinthians15:4 was buried, rose again the third day according to the Scriptures," 
1Corinthians15:5 and was seen by Cephas, and then by the twelve." 
1Corinthians15:6 Then He was seen by over five hundred brothers at once, of whom the greater part remain to this present time, though some have passed away." 
1Corinthians15:7 Then He was seen by James and then by all the apostles. 
1Corinthians15:7 Then He was seen by James and then by all the apostles. 
1Corinthians15:8 Last of all, He was seen by me also, as by one born at the wrong time." 
1Corinthians15:9 For I am the least of the apostles and am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God." 
1Corinthians15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am. And His grace toward me was not in vain. I labored more abundantly than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me." 
1Corinthians15:11 Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed." 
1Corinthians15:12 Now if Christ is preached that He rose from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?" 
1Corinthians15:13 If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not risen." 
1Corinthians15:14 If Christ has not risen, then our preaching is vain, and your faith is also vain." 
1Corinthians15:15 Yes, and we would then be found false witnesses of God, because we have testified that God raised up Christ, whom He did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise." 
1Corinthians15:16 For if the dead do not rise, then Christ has not been raised." 
1Corinthians15:17 If Christ is not raised, your faith is vain; you are still in your sins." 
1Corinthians15:18 Then they also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. 
1Corinthians15:19 If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable." 
1Corinthians15:20 But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 
1Corinthians15:21 For since death came by man, by man came also the resurrection of the dead." 
1Corinthians15:22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." 
1Corinthians15:23 But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward, those who are Christ’s at His coming." 
1Corinthians15:24 Then comes the end when He will deliver up the kingdom to God the Father, when He puts an end to all rule and all authority and power." 
1Corinthians15:25 For He will reign until He has put all enemies under His feet. 
1Corinthians15:26 The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. 
1Corinthians15:27 For He “has put all things under His feet.” But when He says, “all things are put under Him,” it is revealed that He, who has put all things under Him, is the exception." 
1Corinthians15:28 When all things are subjected to Him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all." 
1Corinthians15:29 Otherwise, what will they do who are baptized for the dead, if the dead do not rise at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" 
1Corinthians15:30 And why do we stand in danger every hour? 
1Corinthians15:31 I affirm, by the boasting in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily." 
1Corinthians15:32 If, in the manner of men, I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantage is it to me if the dead do not rise? “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.”" 
1Corinthians15:33 Do not be deceived: “Bad company corrupts good morals.” 
1Corinthians15:34 Awake to righteousness and do not sin, for some do not have the knowledge of God. I say this to your shame." 
1Corinthians15:35 But someone will say, “How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come?”" 
1Corinthians15:36 You fool! What you sow is not made alive unless it dies. 
1Corinthians15:37 When you sow, you do not sow the body that shall be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other grain." 
1Corinthians15:38 Then God gives it a body as He pleases, and to each seed its own body." 
1Corinthians15:39 All flesh is not the same flesh. There is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fish, and another of birds." 
1Corinthians15:40 There are also celestial bodies and terrestrial bodies. The glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another." 
1Corinthians15:41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars. One star differs from another star in glory." 
1Corinthians15:42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body that is sown is perishable; it is raised imperishable. 
1Corinthians15:43 It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. 
1Corinthians15:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body." 
1Corinthians15:45 So it is written, “The first man Adam was made a living soul.” The last Adam was made a life-giving spirit." 
1Corinthians15:46 However, that which is spiritual is not first, but the natural, and then the spiritual." 
1Corinthians15:47 The first man was of the earth, made of dust; the second man was the Lord from heaven." 
1Corinthians15:48 As was the man of dust, so are those who are of dust; and as is the man of heaven, so are those who are of heaven." 
1Corinthians15:49 As we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven." 
1Corinthians15:50 Now this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does corruption inherit incorruption." 
1Corinthians15:51 Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed." 
1Corinthians15:52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed." 
1Corinthians15:53 For this corruptible will put on incorruption, and this mortal will put on immortality." 
1Corinthians15:54 When this corruptible will have put on incorruption, and this mortal will have put on immortality, then the saying that is written shall come to pass: “Death is swallowed up in victory.”" 
1Corinthians15:55 “O death, where is your sting? O grave, where is your victory?”" 
1Corinthians15:56 The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law." 
1Corinthians15:57 But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!" 
1Corinthians15:58 Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor in the Lord is not in vain." 
1Corinthians16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given instruction to the churches of Galatia, so even you must do." 
1Corinthians16:2 On the first day of the week let every one of you lay in store, as God has prospered him, so that no collections be made when I come." 
1Corinthians16:3 And when I come, I will send whomever you approve with your letters to take your generous gifts to Jerusalem." 
1Corinthians16:4 If it is fitting that I go also, they will go with me." 
1Corinthians16:5 Now I will come to you after I pass through Macedonia. For I will pass through Macedonia. 
1Corinthians16:6 It may be that I will remain, of course, and spend the winter with you, that you may send me on my journey wherever I go." 
1Corinthians16:7 For I do not wish to see you now in passing. Instead, I trust to remain a while with you, if the Lord permits." 
1Corinthians16:8 But I will remain at Ephesus until Pentecost. 
1Corinthians16:9 For a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries." 
1Corinthians16:10 Now if Timothy comes, see that he may remain with you without fear, for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do." 
1Corinthians16:11 Therefore let no one despise him. But send him on his way in peace, that he may come to me. I am expecting him with the brothers." 
1Corinthians16:12 As for our brother Apollos, I greatly wanted him to come to you with the brothers. But he was not willing at all to come at this time. However, he will come when he has a convenient time." 
1Corinthians16:13 Watch, stand fast in the faith, be bold like men, and be strong." 
1Corinthians16:14 Let all that you do be done with love. 
1Corinthians16:15 You know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints. So I ask you, brothers," 
1Corinthians16:16 that you submit yourselves to such people, and to everyone who helps and labors with us." 
1Corinthians16:17 I rejoice at the arrival of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus, for they supplied what was lacking on your part." 
1Corinthians16:18 They have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge these men. 
1Corinthians16:19 The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you heartily in the Lord, with the church that is in their house." 
1Corinthians16:20 All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
1Corinthians16:21 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand." 
1Corinthians16:22 If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Come, O Lord!" 
1Corinthians16:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
1Corinthians16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
2Corinthians1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in all Achaia:" 
2Corinthians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. 
2Corinthians1:3 Blessed be God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort," 
2Corinthians1:4 who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble by the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God." 
2Corinthians1:5 As the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also abounds through Christ." 
2Corinthians1:6 If we are afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effective in enduring the same sufferings which we also suffer. Or if we are comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation." 
2Corinthians1:7 Our hope for you is steadfast, knowing that as you share in the sufferings, so also you will share in the consolation." 
2Corinthians1:8 For we would not, brothers, have you ignorant of our troubles which came to us in Asia. We were pressured beyond measure, above strength, so that we despaired even of life." 
2Corinthians1:9 We had the sentence of death in ourselves, so that we would not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead." 
2Corinthians1:10 He delivered us from so great a death and does deliver us. In Him we trust that He will still deliver us," 
2Corinthians1:11 as you help together by praying for us, so that thanks may be given by many on our behalf for the gift bestowed upon us by means of many persons." 
2Corinthians1:12 For our rejoicing is this: The testimony of our conscience is that we conducted ourselves in the world, and more abundantly toward you, in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God." 
2Corinthians1:13 For we write nothing else to you than what you read or understand. And I trust you will understand even to the end," 
2Corinthians1:14 as you have understood us in part, that we are yours, boasting even as you are ours on the day of the Lord Jesus." 
2Corinthians1:15 In this confidence I planned to come to you before, that you might have a second benefit:" 
2Corinthians1:16 to visit you while going to Macedonia, and to come again to you from Macedonia, and then be sent by you on my way to Judea." 
2Corinthians1:16 to visit you while going to Macedonia, and to come again to you from Macedonia, and then be sent by you on my way to Judea." 
2Corinthians1:17 Therefore, when I was planning this, did I do this lightly? Or the things that I plan, do I plan according to the flesh, so that I would tell you “Yes, yes” and “No, no”?" 
2Corinthians1:18 But as God is true, we did not tell you “Yes” and “No.”" 
2Corinthians1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by Silas, Timothy, and me, was not “Yes” and “No.” In Him it was “Yes.”" 
2Corinthians1:20 For all the promises of God in Him are “Yes,” and in Him “Amen,” to the glory of God through us." 
2Corinthians1:21 Now He who establishes us with you in Christ and has anointed us is God," 
2Corinthians1:22 who also has sealed us and established the guarantee with the Spirit in our hearts. 
2Corinthians1:23 Moreover I call God as a witness upon my soul, that it is to spare you that I have not yet gone to Corinth." 
2Corinthians1:24 Not that we have dominion over your faith, but we are fellow workers for your joy, for by faith you stand." 
2Corinthians2:1 But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you in sorrow." 
2Corinthians2:2 For if I make you sorrowful, who then will there be to make me rejoice, but the one whom I have made sorrowful?" 
2Corinthians2:3 I wrote concerning this matter to you, so that when I came, I would not be grieved by those in whom I ought to rejoice, having confidence in you all, that my joy is your joy." 
2Corinthians2:4 For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears, not that you should be grieved, but that you might know the love which I have more abundantly for you." 
2Corinthians2:5 But if anyone has caused grief, he has not grieved me, but to some extent all of you, not to put it too severely." 
2Corinthians2:6 This punishment which was inflicted by many on such a man is sufficient. 
2Corinthians2:7 So on the contrary, you ought to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps he might be swallowed up with excessive sorrow." 
2Corinthians2:8 Therefore I ask you to confirm your love toward him. 
2Corinthians2:9 For to this end I also wrote, so that I might know that you are proving yourselves by whether you are being obedient in all things." 
2Corinthians2:10 Whomever you forgive anything, I also forgive. For if I forgave someone anything, for your sakes I forgave it in Christ," 
2Corinthians2:11 lest Satan should take advantage of us. For we are not ignorant of his devices. 
2Corinthians2:12 Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ’s gospel, and a door was opened to me by the Lord," 
2Corinthians2:13 I had no rest in my spirit, because I did not find Titus my brother. So taking my leave of them, I went from there into Macedonia." 
2Corinthians2:13 I had no rest in my spirit, because I did not find Titus my brother. So taking my leave of them, I went from there into Macedonia." 
2Corinthians2:14 Now thanks be to God who always causes us to triumph in Christ and through us reveals the fragrance of His knowledge in every place. 
2Corinthians2:15 For we are to God a sweet fragrance of Christ among those who are saved and among those who perish. 
2Corinthians2:16 To the one we are the fragrance of death, which brings death, and to the other the fragrance of life, which brings life. Who is sufficient for these things?" 
2Corinthians2:17 For we are not as many are who peddle the word of God. Instead, being sent by God, we sincerely speak in Christ in the sight of God." 
2Corinthians3:1 Do we begin again to commend ourselves? Or do we need, as some others, letters of commendation to you, or letters of commendation from you?" 
2Corinthians3:2 You are our letter written in our hearts, known and read by all men." 
2Corinthians3:3 For you are prominently declared to be the letter of Christ, prepared by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on human tablets of the heart." 
2Corinthians3:4 We have such trust through Christ toward God," 
2Corinthians3:5 not that we are sufficient in ourselves to take credit for anything of ourselves, but our sufficiency is from God," 
2Corinthians3:6 who has made us able ministers of the new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life." 
2Corinthians3:7 If the ministry that brought death, written and engraved on stones, was glorious, so that the Israelites could not look intently at the face of Moses, because of the glory of his countenance, the glory which was to fade away," 
2Corinthians3:8 how will the ministry of the Spirit not be more glorious? 
2Corinthians3:9 For if the ministry of condemnation is glorious, the ministry of righteousness much more exceeds it in glory." 
2Corinthians3:10 Even that which was made glorious had no glory in comparison to the glory that excels. 
2Corinthians3:11 For if that which fades was glorious, that which remains is much more glorious." 
2Corinthians3:12 Seeing then that we have such hope, we speak with great boldness," 
2Corinthians3:13 not as Moses, who put a veil over his face, so that the Israelites could not look intently at the end of what was fading away." 
2Corinthians3:14 Instead, their minds were blinded. For until this day the same veil remains unlifted in the reading of the old covenant, the veil which was done away with in Christ." 
2Corinthians3:15 But even to this day, when Moses is read, the veil is in their hearts." 
2Corinthians3:16 Nevertheless when anyone turns to the Lord, the veil is removed." 
2Corinthians3:17 Now the Lord is the Spirit. And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty." 
2Corinthians3:18 But we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord as in a mirror, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory by the Spirit of the Lord." 
2Corinthians4:1 Therefore, since we have this ministry through the mercy we have received, we do not lose heart." 
2Corinthians4:2 But we have renounced the secret things of shame, not walking in craftiness nor handling the word of God deceitfully, but by expressing the truth and commending ourselves to every man’s conscience in the sight of God." 
2Corinthians4:3 But if our gospel is hidden, it is hidden to those who are lost." 
2Corinthians4:4 The god of this age has blinded the minds of those who do not believe, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them." 
2Corinthians4:5 For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus’ sake." 
2Corinthians4:6 For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ." 
2Corinthians4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, the excellency of the power being from God and not from ourselves." 
2Corinthians4:8 We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;" 
2Corinthians4:9 persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed;" 
2Corinthians4:10 and always carrying around in the body the death of the Lord Jesus, that also the life of Jesus might be expressed in our bodies." 
2Corinthians4:11 For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus’ sake, that also the life of Jesus might be manifested in our mortal flesh." 
2Corinthians4:12 So then, death works in us, but life in you." 
2Corinthians4:13 We have the same spirit of faith. As it is written, “I believed, and therefore I have spoken.” So we also believe and therefore speak," 
2Corinthians4:14 knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will also raise us through Jesus and will present us with you. 
2Corinthians4:15 All these things are for your sakes, so that the abundant grace through the thanksgiving of many might overflow to the glory of God." 
2Corinthians4:16 For this reason we do not lose heart: Even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed day by day." 
2Corinthians4:17 Our light affliction, which lasts but for a moment, works for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory," 
2Corinthians4:18 while we do not look at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal." 
2Corinthians5:1 We know that if our earthly house, this tent, were to be destroyed, we have an eternal building of God in the heavens, a house not made with hands." 
2Corinthians5:2 In this one we groan, earnestly desiring to be sheltered with our house which is from heaven." 
2Corinthians5:3 Thus being sheltered, we shall not be found unsheltered." 
2Corinthians5:4 For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened, not because we wish to be unclothed, but to be further clothed, so that what is mortal might be swallowed up by life." 
2Corinthians5:5 Now He who has created us for this very thing is God, who also has given to us the guarantee of the Spirit." 
2Corinthians5:6 Therefore we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord." 
2Corinthians5:7 For we walk by faith, not by sight." 
2Corinthians5:8 Instead, I say that we are confident and willing to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord." 
2Corinthians5:9 So whether present or absent, we labor that we may be accepted by Him." 
2Corinthians5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive his recompense in the body, according to what he has done, whether it was good or bad." 
2Corinthians5:11 Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men. But we are revealed to God, and I trust we are also revealed in your consciences." 
2Corinthians5:12 For we are not commending ourselves again to you. Instead, we give you occasion to boast on our behalf, that you may have something to answer those who boast in appearance and not in heart." 
2Corinthians5:13 If we are out of our minds, it is for God; if we are in our right mind, it is for you." 
2Corinthians5:14 For the love of Christ constrains us, because we thus judge: that if one died for all, then all have died." 
2Corinthians5:15 And He died for all, that those who live should not from now on live for themselves, but for Him who died for them and rose again." 
2Corinthians5:16 So from now on we do not regard anyone according to the flesh. Yes, though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet we do not regard Him as such from now on." 
2Corinthians5:17 Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new." 
2Corinthians5:18 All this is from God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Jesus Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation," 
2Corinthians5:19 that is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their sins against them, and has entrusted to us the message of reconciliation." 
2Corinthians5:20 So we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us. We implore you in Christ’s stead: Be reconciled to God." 
2Corinthians5:21 God made Him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him." 
2Corinthians6:1 As workers together with God, we ask you not to receive the grace of God in vain." 
2Corinthians6:2 For He says: “In an acceptable time I have listened to you, and in the day of salvation I have helped you.” Behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation." 
2Corinthians6:3 We give no offense in anything, that our service may not be blamed." 
2Corinthians6:4 But in all things we commend ourselves as servants of God: in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distress," 
2Corinthians6:5 in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in sleeplessness, and in hunger;" 
2Corinthians6:6 by purity, by knowledge, by patience, by kindness, by the Holy Spirit, by genuine love," 
2Corinthians6:7 by the word of truth, by the power of God, by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left," 
2Corinthians6:8 by honor and dishonor, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true;" 
2Corinthians6:9 as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, but not killed;" 
2Corinthians6:10 as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; and as having nothing, and yet possessing all things." 
2Corinthians6:11 O Corinthians, we have spoken frankly to you; our heart is opened wide." 
2Corinthians6:12 You are not restrained by us, but you are restrained in your own affections." 
2Corinthians6:13 In return (I speak as to my children) you also be open. 
2Corinthians6:14 Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with unrighteousness? What communion has light with darkness? 
2Corinthians6:15 What agreement has Christ with Belial? Or what part has he who believes with an unbeliever? 
2Corinthians6:16 What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. As God has said: “I will live in them and walk in them. I will be their God, and they shall be My people.”" 
2Corinthians6:17 Therefore, “Come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive you.”" 
2Corinthians6:18 “I will be a Father to you, and you shall be My sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty.”" 
2Corinthians7:1 Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." 
2Corinthians7:2 Accept us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, and we have defrauded no one." 
2Corinthians7:3 I do not say this to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts, so that we would die or live with you." 
2Corinthians7:4 Great is my boldness of speech toward you; great is my boasting of you. I am filled with comfort, and I am exceedingly joyful in all our tribulation." 
2Corinthians7:5 For when we came to Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, and we were troubled on every side. On the outside were conflicts; on the inside were fears." 
2Corinthians7:6 Nevertheless God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us through the coming of Titus," 
2Corinthians7:6 Nevertheless God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us through the coming of Titus," 
2Corinthians7:7 and not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted in you, when he told us about your sincere desire, your mourning, and your zeal toward me, so that I rejoiced even more." 
2Corinthians7:8 Though I caused you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it. For I perceive that this same letter has caused you sorrow, though only for a while." 
2Corinthians7:9 Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that your sorrow led to repentance. For you were made sorrowful in a godly way, that you might not suffer loss in any way through us." 
2Corinthians7:10 Godly sorrow produces repentance that leads to salvation and brings no regret, but the sorrow of the world produces death." 
2Corinthians7:11 For observe this very thing, which you became sorrowful in a godly way: What carefulness it produced in you, what vindication of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what intense desire, what zeal, what avenging of wrong! In all things you have proven yourselves to be innocent in this matter." 
2Corinthians7:12 So though I wrote to you, I did it not because of him who had done the wrong, nor because of him who suffered wrong, but that our care for you in the sight of God might be evident to you." 
2Corinthians7:13 Therefore we were comforted in your comfort. Yes, and we were exceedingly the more joyful for the sake of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all." 
2Corinthians7:13 Therefore we were comforted in your comfort. Yes, and we were exceedingly the more joyful for the sake of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all." 
2Corinthians7:14 So I am not ashamed if I have boasted of anything to him regarding you. But as we spoke all things to you in truth, even our boasting in the presence of Titus is found to be true." 
2Corinthians7:14 So I am not ashamed if I have boasted of anything to him regarding you. But as we spoke all things to you in truth, even our boasting in the presence of Titus is found to be true." 
2Corinthians7:15 Now his affection abounds all the more toward you, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling you received him." 
2Corinthians7:16 Therefore I rejoice that I have confidence in you in everything. 
2Corinthians8:1 Moreover, brothers, we want you to experience the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia," 
2Corinthians8:2 how in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty overflowed toward the riches of their generous giving." 
2Corinthians8:3 For I bear record that according to their means, and beyond their means, they freely gave," 
2Corinthians8:4 begging us with much urgency that we would receive the gift and the fellowship of ministering to the saints. 
2Corinthians8:5 This they did, not as we expected. First, they gave themselves to the Lord, and then to us by the will of God." 
2Corinthians8:6 So we urged Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also complete this gracious deed for you." 
2Corinthians8:6 So we urged Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also complete this gracious deed for you." 
2Corinthians8:7 But as you abound in everything—in faith, in utterance, in knowledge, in all diligence, and in your love to us —see that you abound in this grace also." 
2Corinthians8:8 I say this not as a command, but to prove through the authenticity of others, the sincerity also of your love." 
2Corinthians8:9 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that through His poverty you might be rich." 
2Corinthians8:10 And in this matter I give my advice. It is appropriate for you, who began last year not only to give, but also to willingly give." 
2Corinthians8:11 Now therefore complete the task, so that, as there was a willingness to do so, there may be a performance of it according to your means." 
2Corinthians8:12 For if there is a willing mind first, the gift is accepted according to what a man possesses and not according to what he does not possess." 
2Corinthians8:13 I do not mean that other men have relief, and you be burdened," 
2Corinthians8:14 but for equality, that your abundance now at this time may supply their need, and their abundance may supply your need —that there may be equality." 
2Corinthians8:15 As it is written, “He who gathered much had no excess. And he who gathered little had no lack.”" 
2Corinthians8:16 But thanks be to God, who placed the same sincere care in the heart of Titus for you." 
2Corinthians8:16 But thanks be to God, who placed the same sincere care in the heart of Titus for you." 
2Corinthians8:17 For indeed he accepted the exhortation. But being more zealous, he went to you of his own accord." 
2Corinthians8:18 And we have sent with him the brother whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches. 
2Corinthians8:19 And not only that, but he was also chosen by the churches to travel with us with this gift, which we administer to the glory of the same Lord, and to declare your willing mind," 
2Corinthians8:20 to prevent any man from blaming us in administering this abundant gift," 
2Corinthians8:21 providing for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord but also in the sight of men." 
2Corinthians8:22 Furthermore, we have sent with them our brother whom we have frequently proved diligent in many things, but now is much more diligent, due to the great confidence which he has in you." 
2Corinthians8:23 If anyone inquires about Titus, he is my partner and fellow helper concerning you. Or if our brothers are inquired about, they are the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ." 
2Corinthians8:23 If anyone inquires about Titus, he is my partner and fellow helper concerning you. Or if our brothers are inquired about, they are the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ." 
2Corinthians8:24 Therefore show to them, and before the churches, the proof of your love and of our boasting on your behalf." 
2Corinthians9:1 It is redundant for me to write to you concerning the ministry to the saints. 
2Corinthians9:2 I know your willingness, for which I boast of you to those in Macedonia, that Achaia was ready a year ago, and your zeal has stirred up most of them." 
2Corinthians9:3 Yet I have sent the brothers, lest our boasting of you might be in vain in this case, that, as I said, you may be ready;" 
2Corinthians9:4 and lest if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we (not to mention you) should be ashamed of this confident boasting." 
2Corinthians9:5 Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brothers to go ahead to you and arrange beforehand your bountiful gift you previously promised, that it might be prepared as a gift, not as a matter of greed." 
2Corinthians9:6 But this I say: He who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully." 
2Corinthians9:7 Let every man give according to the purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or out of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver." 
2Corinthians9:8 God is able to make all grace abound toward you, so that you, always having enough of everything, may abound to every good work." 
2Corinthians9:9 As it is written: “He has dispersed abroad, He has given to the poor; His righteousness remains forever.”" 
2Corinthians9:10 Now He who supplies seed to the sower and supplies bread for your food will also multiply your seed sown and increase the fruits of your righteousness. 
2Corinthians9:11 So you will be enriched in everything to all bountifulness, which makes us give thanks to God." 
2Corinthians9:12 For the administration of this service not only supplies the need of the saints, but is abundant also through many thanksgivings to God." 
2Corinthians9:13 Meanwhile, through the performance of this ministry, they glorify God for the profession of your faith in the gospel of Christ and for your liberal sharing with them and with all others." 
2Corinthians9:14 And in their prayer for you, they long for you, because of the surpassing grace of God in you." 
2Corinthians9:15 Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift. 
2Corinthians10:1 Now I, Paul, who am lowly in presence among you but bold toward you while absent, appeal to you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ." 
2Corinthians10:2 I beg you that when I am present, I might not have to be bold with that confidence by which I intend to be bold against some, who think of us as if we walked according to the flesh." 
2Corinthians10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh." 
2Corinthians10:4 For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God for the pulling down of strongholds," 
2Corinthians10:5 casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ," 
2Corinthians10:6 and being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is complete. 
2Corinthians10:7 Do you look at things from the outward appearance? If any man trusts that he is Christ’s, let him consider again that, as he is Christ’s, even so are we Christ’s." 
2Corinthians10:8 For even if I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which the Lord has given us for edification and not for your destruction, I shall not be ashamed," 
2Corinthians10:9 lest I appear to frighten you by my letters. 
2Corinthians10:10 “For his letters,” they say, “are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible.”" 
2Corinthians10:11 Let such a person consider this: that as we are in word by letters when we are absent, we will also be in deed when we are present." 
2Corinthians10:12 For we dare not count or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves. They who measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another are not wise. 
2Corinthians10:13 But we will not boast beyond measure, but within the boundaries which God has appointed us, which reach even you." 
2Corinthians10:14 For we are not overextending ourselves as though we did not reach you, since we have come to you, preaching the gospel of Christ." 
2Corinthians10:15 We are not boasting of things beyond our measure in other men’s labors. But we have hope that when your faith is increased, our region shall be greatly enlarged by you," 
2Corinthians10:16 to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you and not to boast in another man’s accomplishments. 
2Corinthians10:17 But, “Let him who boasts, boast in the Lord.”" 
2Corinthians10:18 For it is not he who commends himself who is approved, but he whom the Lord commends." 
2Corinthians11:1 I would to God you could bear with me a little in my folly. Indeed, bear with me." 
2Corinthians11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy. For I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ." 
2Corinthians11:3 But I fear that somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve through his trickery, so your minds might be led astray from the simplicity that is in Christ." 
2Corinthians11:4 For if he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if you receive another spirit, which you have not received, or another gospel, which you have not accepted, you might submit to it readily enough." 
2Corinthians11:5 For I think I am not in any way inferior to the most eminent of the apostles. 
2Corinthians11:6 Even though I am unpolished in speech, yet I am not in knowledge. All things about us have been thoroughly revealed to you." 
2Corinthians11:7 Did I commit a sin in abasing myself that you might be exalted, because I preached to you the gospel of God free of charge?" 
2Corinthians11:8 I robbed other churches by accepting wages from them to serve you. 
2Corinthians11:9 Furthermore, when I was present with you and was lacking, I was a burden to no one. For the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied what I lacked. In all things I have kept myself from being burdensome to you, and so will I keep myself." 
2Corinthians11:10 As the truth of Christ is in me, no one shall stop me from this boasting in the regions of Achaia." 
2Corinthians11:11 Why? Because I do not love you? God knows. 
2Corinthians11:12 And I will continue doing what I am doing, that I may cut off the opportunity from those who desire an opportunity to be found equal to us in what they boast about." 
2Corinthians11:13 For such are false apostles and deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ." 
2Corinthians11:14 And no wonder! For even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. 
2Corinthians11:15 Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also disguise themselves as ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works." 
2Corinthians11:16 I say again, let no one think that I am a fool. Otherwise, at least receive me as a fool, so that I also may boast a little." 
2Corinthians11:17 What I speak, I speak not according to the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting." 
2Corinthians11:18 Seeing that many boast according to the flesh, I also will boast." 
2Corinthians11:19 For you tolerate fools gladly, seeing you yourselves are wise." 
2Corinthians11:20 For you permit it if a man brings you into bondage, if a man devours you, if a man takes from you, if a man exalts himself, or if a man strikes you on the face." 
2Corinthians11:21 I say to my reproach that we were too weak for that. But whenever anyone is bold (I speak foolishly), I am bold also." 
2Corinthians11:22 Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. 
2Corinthians11:22 Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. 
2Corinthians11:23 Are they servants of Christ? I speak as a fool. I am more: in labors more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, often facing death." 
2Corinthians11:24 Five times I received from the Jews forty lashes minus one. 
2Corinthians11:25 Three times I was beaten with rods; once I was stoned; three times I suffered shipwreck; a night and a day I have been in the deep; 
2Corinthians11:26 in journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by my own countrymen, in perils by the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brothers;" 
2Corinthians11:27 in weariness and painfulness, in sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, and in cold and nakedness." 
2Corinthians11:28 Beside the external things, the care of all the churches pressures me daily." 
2Corinthians11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is led into sin, and I am not distressed?" 
2Corinthians11:30 If I must boast, I will boast of the things which concern my weakness." 
2Corinthians11:31 The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forevermore, knows that I am not lying." 
2Corinthians11:32 In Damascus the governor under King Aretas secured the city of the Damascenes with a garrison, desiring to arrest me." 
2Corinthians11:33 But I was let down by the wall through a window in a basket and escaped his hands. 
2Corinthians12:1 Doubtless it is not profitable for me to boast. So I will move on to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
2Corinthians12:2 I knew a man in Christ over fourteen years ago—whether in the body or out of the body I cannot tell, God knows—such a one was caught up to the third heaven." 
2Corinthians12:3 And I knew that such a man—whether in the body or out of the body I cannot tell, God knows—" 
2Corinthians12:4 was caught up into paradise and heard inexpressible words not permitted for a man to say. 
2Corinthians12:5 Of such a person, I will boast. Yet of myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses." 
2Corinthians12:6 For if I desire to boast, I will not be a fool, for I will be speaking the truth. But now I resist, lest anyone should think of me above that which he sees me to be or hears from me." 
2Corinthians12:7 And lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of revelations, a thorn was given me in the body, a messenger of Satan, to torment me, lest I be exalted above measure." 
2Corinthians12:8 I asked the Lord three times that this thing might depart from me. 
2Corinthians12:9 But He said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for My strength is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore most gladly I will boast in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest upon me." 
2Corinthians12:10 So I take pleasure in weaknesses, in reproaches, in hardships, in persecutions, and in distresses for Christ’s sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong." 
2Corinthians12:11 I have become a fool in boasting. You have compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you, for I am in no way inferior to the leading apostles, though I am nothing." 
2Corinthians12:12 Truly the signs of an apostle were performed among you in all patience, in signs and wonders, and mighty deeds." 
2Corinthians12:13 For in what respect were you inferior to other churches, unless it be that I myself was not burdensome to you? Forgive me this wrong!" 
2Corinthians12:14 I am ready to come to you this third time. And I will not be burdensome to you, for I do not seek what is yours but only you. For the children ought not to save up for the parents, but the parents for the children." 
2Corinthians12:15 And I will very gladly spend and be spent for you. If I love you more, am I to be loved less?" 
2Corinthians12:16 But be that as it may. I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with deceit." 
2Corinthians12:17 Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you? 
2Corinthians12:18 I urged Titus to go, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?" 
2Corinthians12:18 I urged Titus to go, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?" 
2Corinthians12:19 Again, do you think that we are defending ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ. We do all things, beloved, for your edifying." 
2Corinthians12:20 For I fear that when I come, I shall not find you such as I wish, and that I shall be found by you such as you do not wish. I fear there are debates, envying, wrath, strife, backbiting, whispering, arrogance, and disorder." 
2Corinthians12:21 And I fear that when I come again, my God will humble me among you, and that I shall mourn for many who have sinned already, who have not repented of impurity, sexual immorality, and lasciviousness which they have committed." 
2Corinthians13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. “In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.” 
2Corinthians13:2 I told you before, and foretell as if I were present the second time. And being absent now, I write to those who have sinned before, and to all the others, that if I come again, I will not spare anyone," 
2Corinthians13:3 since you seek proof of Christ speaking through me, who toward you is not weak, but is mighty in you." 
2Corinthians13:4 For though He was crucified through weakness, yet He lives by the power of God. So also we are weak in Him, but we shall live with Him by the power of God serving you." 
2Corinthians13:5 Examine yourselves, seeing whether you are in the faith; test yourselves. Do you not know that Jesus Christ is in you? —unless indeed you are disqualified." 
2Corinthians13:6 I trust that you will know that we are not disqualified. 
2Corinthians13:7 Now I pray to God that you do no evil, not that we should appear approved, but that you should do that which is honorable, whether or not we may seem disqualified." 
2Corinthians13:8 For we can do nothing against the truth, but only for the truth." 
2Corinthians13:9 For we are glad when we are weak, and you are strong. We wish even for your completion." 
2Corinthians13:10 Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being present I should be sharp, according to the authority which the Lord has given me for edification and not for destruction." 
2Corinthians13:11 Finally, brothers, rejoice. Be complete, be of good comfort, be of one mind, and live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you." 
2Corinthians13:12 Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
2Corinthians13:13 All the saints greet you. 
2Corinthians13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen." 
Galatians1:1 Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead)," 
Galatians1:2 and all the brothers who are with me, To the churches of Galatia:" 
Galatians1:3 Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Galatians1:4 who gave Himself for our sins, that He might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father," 
Galatians1:5 to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Galatians1:6 I marvel that you are turning away so soon from Him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel," 
Galatians1:7 which is not a gospel. But there are some who trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. 
Galatians1:8 Although if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than the one we have preached to you, let him be accursed." 
Galatians1:9 As we said before, so I say now again: If anyone preaches any other gospel to you than the one you have received, let him be accursed." 
Galatians1:10 For am I now seeking the approval of men or of God? Or am I trying to please men? For if I were still trying to please men, I would not be the servant of Christ." 
Galatians1:11 But I reveal to you, brothers, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man." 
Galatians1:12 For I neither received it from man, neither was I taught it, except by a revelation of Jesus Christ." 
Galatians1:13 For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it," 
Galatians1:14 and progressed in Judaism above many of my equals in my own heritage, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers." 
Galatians1:15 But when it pleased God, who set me apart since I was in my mother’s womb and called me by His grace," 
Galatians1:16 to reveal His Son in me, that I might preach Him among the nations, I did not immediately confer with flesh and blood," 
Galatians1:17 nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus." 
Galatians1:18 After three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and stayed with him for fifteen days. 
Galatians1:19 I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord’s brother." 
Galatians1:19 I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord’s brother." 
Galatians1:20 In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!" 
Galatians1:21 Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia 
Galatians1:22 and was unknown by face to the churches of Judea which were in Christ. 
Galatians1:22 and was unknown by face to the churches of Judea which were in Christ. 
Galatians1:23 They had heard only, “He who persecuted us in times past now preaches the faith which he once destroyed.”" 
Galatians1:24 And they glorified God because of me. 
Galatians2:1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas and also took Titus with me. 
Galatians2:1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas and also took Titus with me. 
Galatians2:2 I went up in response to a revelation and communicated to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles. But privately I communicated to those who were of reputation, in case I might be running, or had run, in vain." 
Galatians2:3 But even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was not compelled to be circumcised." 
Galatians2:3 But even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was not compelled to be circumcised." 
Galatians2:4 This happened because false brothers were secretly brought in, who sneaked in to spy out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage." 
Galatians2:5 We did not yield to subjection to them, not for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might continue with you." 
Galatians2:6 But of these who seemed to be something —whatever they were, it makes no difference to me; God shows no partiality to anyone —for those who seemed to be something added nothing to me." 
Galatians2:7 On the contrary, they saw that I was entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, as the gospel to the circumcised was to Peter." 
Galatians2:8 For He who worked effectively in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcised worked effectively in me toward the Gentiles. 
Galatians2:9 When James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, understood the grace that was given to me, they gave to Barnabas and me the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised." 
Galatians2:9 When James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, understood the grace that was given to me, they gave to Barnabas and me the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised." 
Galatians2:9 When James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, understood the grace that was given to me, they gave to Barnabas and me the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised." 
Galatians2:10 Only they requested that we should remember the poor, which I also was eager to do." 
Galatians2:11 But when Peter came to Antioch, I withstood him face to face, because he stood condemned." 
Galatians2:12 Before certain men came from James, he ate with the Gentiles. But when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision." 
Galatians2:12 Before certain men came from James, he ate with the Gentiles. But when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision." 
Galatians2:13 And the other Jews, likewise, joined together in hypocrisy with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy." 
Galatians2:14 But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before them all, “If you, being a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, why do you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews?”" 
Galatians2:15 We are Jews by nature, and not Gentile sinners," 
Galatians2:16 yet we know that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we might be justified by faith in Christ, rather than by the works of the law. For by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified." 
Galatians2:17 If, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found to be sinners, is Christ therefore the minister of sin? God forbid!" 
Galatians2:18 For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor." 
Galatians2:19 For through the law I am dead to the law, that I might live for God." 
Galatians2:20 I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in my body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me." 
Galatians2:21 I do not nullify the grace of God. For if righteousness comes by the law, then Christ died in vain." 
Galatians3:1 O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you that you should not obey the truth? Before your eyes Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed among you as crucified. 
Galatians3:2 I want to learn only this from you: Did you receive the Spirit through the works of the law, or by hearing with faith?" 
Galatians3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?" 
Galatians3:4 Have you endured so many things for nothing, if indeed it was for nothing?" 
Galatians3:5 Does God give you the Spirit and work miracles among you by the works of the law, or by hearing with faith?" 
Galatians3:6 Even Abraham “believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.”" 
Galatians3:7 Therefore know that those who are of faith are the sons of Abraham. 
Galatians3:8 And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel in advance to Abraham, saying, “In you shall all the nations be blessed.”" 
Galatians3:9 So then those who are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. 
Galatians3:10 For all who rely on the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the Book of the Law, to do them.”" 
Galatians3:11 Now it is evident that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, for “The just shall live by faith.”" 
Galatians3:12 But the law is not of faith, for “The man who does them shall live by them.”" 
Galatians3:13 Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law by being made a curse for us—as it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree” —" 
Galatians3:14 so that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith." 
Galatians3:15 Brothers, I am speaking in human terms: Though it is only a man’s covenant, yet if it is ratified, no one annuls or adds to it." 
Galatians3:16 Now the promises were made to Abraham and his Seed. He does not say, “and to seeds,” meaning many, but “and to your Seed,” meaning one, who is Christ." 
Galatians3:17 And this I say, that the law, which came four hundred and thirty years later, does not annul the covenant that was ratified by God in Christ, so as to nullify the promise." 
Galatians3:18 For if the inheritance comes from the law, it no longer comes from the promise. But God gave it to Abraham through a promise." 
Galatians3:19 What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions, until the Seed should come to whom the promise was made. And it was ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator." 
Galatians3:20 Now a mediator is not a mediator for only one party, but God is one." 
Galatians3:21 Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? God forbid! For if there had been a law given which could have given life, righteousness would indeed come through the law." 
Galatians3:22 But the Scripture has confined all things under sin, that the promise through faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe." 
Galatians3:23 But before faith came, we were imprisoned under the law, kept for the faith which was later to be revealed." 
Galatians3:24 So the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith." 
Galatians3:25 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor." 
Galatians3:26 You are all sons of God by faith in Christ Jesus. 
Galatians3:27 For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. 
Galatians3:28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, and there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus." 
Galatians3:29 If you are Christ’s, then you are Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise." 
Galatians4:1 Now I say that as long as the heir is a child, he does not differ from a servant though he is lord of all." 
Galatians4:2 But he is under tutors and governors until the time appointed by the father. 
Galatians4:3 So when we were children, we were in bondage to the elements of the world." 
Galatians4:4 But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth His Son, born from a woman, born under the law," 
Galatians4:5 to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons." 
Galatians4:6 And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, “Abba, Father!”" 
Galatians4:7 Therefore you are no longer a servant, but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ." 
Galatians4:8 Previously, when you did not know God, you served those who by nature are not gods." 
Galatians4:9 But now, after you have known God, or rather are known by God, how do you turn again to the weak and worthless elemental forces to which you desire again to be in bondage?" 
Galatians4:10 You observe days and months and seasons and years. 
Galatians4:11 I am afraid for you, lest I have worked for you in vain." 
Galatians4:12 Brothers, I ask you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You have done me no wrong." 
Galatians4:13 You know that it was because of an infirmity of the flesh that I first preached the gospel to you. 
Galatians4:14 Though my infirmity was in my flesh, you neither despised nor rejected me, but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus." 
Galatians4:15 So where is your blessing? For I bear witness of you that, if it had been possible, you would have plucked out your own eyes and given them to me." 
Galatians4:16 Have I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?" 
Galatians4:17 They would zealously influence you, but not favorably. Yes, they would exclusively control you, so that you might consult them." 
Galatians4:18 But it is good to be zealous in a good manner always and not only when I am present with you. 
Galatians4:19 My little children, of whom I labor in birth again until Christ is formed in you," 
Galatians4:20 I desire to be present with you now and to change my tone, for I am displeased with you." 
Galatians4:21 Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law?" 
Galatians4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a slave woman, the other by a free woman." 
Galatians4:23 But he who was of the slave woman was born according to the flesh, but he of the free woman through the promise." 
Galatians4:24 These things are an allegory, for these are the two covenants. The one is from Mount Sinai, which gives birth to bondage; she is Hagar." 
Galatians4:25 Now this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and represents the present Jerusalem, and is in bondage with her children." 
Galatians4:26 But the Jerusalem which is above is free, which is our mother." 
Galatians4:27 For it is written: “Rejoice, barren woman who does not bear; break forth and shout, you who have no labor pains! For the desolate has many more children than she who has a husband.”" 
Galatians4:28 Now we, brothers, like Isaac, are the children of promise." 
Galatians4:29 But as it was then, he who was born after the flesh persecuted him who was born after the Spirit, so it is now also." 
Galatians4:30 Nevertheless what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not be heir with the son of the free woman.”" 
Galatians4:31 So then, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free woman." 
Galatians5:1 Stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has set us free, and be not entangled again with a yoke of bondage." 
Galatians5:2 Indeed I, Paul, say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing." 
Galatians5:3 I testify again to every man who is circumcised that he is obligated to keep the whole law. 
Galatians5:4 You have been cut off from Christ, whoever of you are justified by law; you have fallen from grace." 
Galatians5:5 For we, through the Spirit, by faith, eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness." 
Galatians5:6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith which works through love." 
Galatians5:7 You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? 
Galatians5:8 This persuasion does not come from Him who calls you. 
Galatians5:9 A little yeast leavens the whole batch. 
Galatians5:10 I have confidence in you through the Lord that you will not think otherwise. But he who is troubling you shall bear his judgment, whoever he is." 
Galatians5:11 Brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, why do I still suffer persecution? Then the offense of the cross has ceased." 
Galatians5:12 I wish that those who are troubling you would castrate themselves! 
Galatians5:13 You, brothers, have been called to liberty. Only do not use liberty to give an opportunity to the flesh, but by love serve one another." 
Galatians5:14 For the entire law is fulfilled in one word, even in this: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”" 
Galatians5:15 But if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you are not consumed by one another." 
Galatians5:16 I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh." 
Galatians5:17 For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh. These are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please." 
Galatians5:18 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law." 
Galatians5:19 Now the works of the flesh are revealed, which are these: adultery, sexual immorality, impurity, lewdness," 
Galatians5:20 idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strife, jealousy, rage, selfishness, dissensions, heresies," 
Galatians5:21 envy, murders, drunkenness, carousing, and the like. I warn you, as I previously warned you, that those who do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God." 
Galatians5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, gentleness, goodness, faith," 
Galatians5:23 meekness, and self-control; against such there is no law." 
Galatians5:24 Those who are Christ’s have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts. 
Galatians5:25 If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit." 
Galatians5:26 Let us not be conceited, provoking one another and envying one another." 
Galatians6:1 Brothers, if a man is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, watching yourselves, lest you also be tempted." 
Galatians6:2 Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ." 
Galatians6:3 For if someone thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself." 
Galatians6:4 But let each one examine his own work, and then he will have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another." 
Galatians6:5 For each one shall bear his own burden. 
Galatians6:6 Let him who is taught in the word share all good things with him who teaches. 
Galatians6:7 Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that will he also reap." 
Galatians6:8 For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life." 
Galatians6:9 And let us not grow weary in doing good, for in due season we shall reap, if we do not give up." 
Galatians6:10 Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who are of the household of faith." 
Galatians6:11 You see what large letters I have written to you with my own hand. 
Galatians6:12 It is those who desire to make a good showing in the flesh that try to compel you to be circumcised, only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ." 
Galatians6:13 For they themselves who are circumcised do not keep the law. But they desire to have you circumcised, so that they may boast in your flesh." 
Galatians6:14 God forbid that I should boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world." 
Galatians6:15 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but a new creation." 
Galatians6:16 Peace and mercy be on all who walk according to this rule and upon the Israel of God. 
Galatians6:17 From now on let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus." 
Galatians6:18 Brothers, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen." 
Ephesians1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, To the saints who are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus:" 
Ephesians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Ephesians1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ," 
Ephesians1:4 just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, to be holy and blameless before Him in love;" 
Ephesians1:5 He predestined us to adoption as sons to Himself through Jesus Christ according to the good pleasure of His will," 
Ephesians1:6 to the praise of the glory of His grace which He graciously bestowed on us in the Beloved. 
Ephesians1:7 In Him we have redemption through His blood and the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of His grace," 
Ephesians1:8 which He lavished on us in all wisdom and insight," 
Ephesians1:9 making known to us the mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure, which He purposed in Himself," 
Ephesians1:10 as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in Christ, which are in heaven and on earth." 
Ephesians1:11 In Him also we have received an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His own will," 
Ephesians1:12 that we, who were the first to hope in Christ, should live for the praise of His glory." 
Ephesians1:13 In Him you also, after hearing the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and after believing in Him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit," 
Ephesians1:14 who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of His glory." 
Ephesians1:15 Therefore I also, after hearing of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints," 
Ephesians1:16 do not cease giving thanks for you, mentioning you in my prayers," 
Ephesians1:17 so that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him," 
Ephesians1:18 that the eyes of your understanding may be enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling and what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance among the saints," 
Ephesians1:19 and what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the working of His mighty power," 
Ephesians1:20 which He performed in Christ when He raised Him from the dead and seated Him at His own right hand in the heavenly places," 
Ephesians1:21 far above all principalities, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in that which is to come." 
Ephesians1:22 And He put all things in subjection under His feet and made Him the head over all things for the church," 
Ephesians1:23 which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills all things in all ways." 
Ephesians2:1 And you were dead in your trespasses and sins," 
Ephesians2:2 in which you formerly walked according to the age of this world and according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience," 
Ephesians2:3 among them we all also once lived in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest." 
Ephesians2:4 But God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us," 
Ephesians2:5 even when we were dead in sins, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved)," 
Ephesians2:6 and He raised us up and seated us together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus," 
Ephesians2:7 so that in the coming ages He might show the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. 
Ephesians2:8 For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not of yourselves. It is the gift of God," 
Ephesians2:9 not of works, so that no one should boast." 
Ephesians2:10 For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, so that we should walk in them." 
Ephesians2:11 Therefore remember that formerly you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called the “uncircumcision” by the so-called “circumcision” in the flesh by human hands," 
Ephesians2:12 were at that time apart from Christ, alienated from the citizenship of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, without hope and without God in the world." 
Ephesians2:13 But now in Christ Jesus you who were formerly far away have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 
Ephesians2:14 For He is our peace, who has made both groups one and has broken down the barrier of the dividing wall," 
Ephesians2:15 by abolishing in His flesh the enmity, that is, the law of the commandments contained in ordinances, that in Himself He might make the two into one new man, thus making peace," 
Ephesians2:16 and that He might reconcile both to God into one body through the cross, thereby slaying the enmity." 
Ephesians2:17 And He came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace to those who were near. 
Ephesians2:18 For through Him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. 
Ephesians2:19 Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God," 
Ephesians2:20 having been built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone," 
Ephesians2:21 in whom the entire building, tightly framed together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord," 
Ephesians2:22 in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God through the Spirit. 
Ephesians3:1 For this reason I, Paul, am the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles." 
Ephesians3:2 You may have heard of the administration of the grace of God which was given me for you," 
Ephesians3:3 how by revelation He made known to me the mystery, as I have written briefly already," 
Ephesians3:4 by which, when you read it, you may understand my knowledge of the mystery of Christ," 
Ephesians3:5 which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it is now revealed to His holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit," 
Ephesians3:6 how the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of His promise in Christ through the gospel." 
Ephesians3:7 Of this I was made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God given to me by the effective working of His power." 
Ephesians3:8 To me, the very least of all saints, was this grace given, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ," 
Ephesians3:9 and to reveal for all people what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things through Jesus Christ," 
Ephesians3:10 so that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known by the church to the principalities and powers in the heavenly places," 
Ephesians3:11 according to the eternal purpose which He completed in Christ Jesus our Lord," 
Ephesians3:12 in whom we have boldness and confident access through faith in Him. 
Ephesians3:13 Therefore I ask you not to lose heart at my tribulations for you, which is your glory." 
Ephesians3:14 For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Ephesians3:15 from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named," 
Ephesians3:16 that He would give you, according to the riches of His glory, power to be strengthened by His Spirit in the inner man," 
Ephesians3:17 and that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; that you, being rooted and grounded in love," 
Ephesians3:18 may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height," 
Ephesians3:19 and to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge; that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. 
Ephesians3:20 Now to Him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly beyond all that we ask or imagine, according to the power that works in us," 
Ephesians3:21 to Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen." 
Ephesians4:1 I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, exhort you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you were called." 
Ephesians4:2 With all humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another in love," 
Ephesians4:3 be eager to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. 
Ephesians4:4 There is one body and one Spirit, even as you were called in one hope of your calling," 
Ephesians4:5 one Lord, one faith, one baptism," 
Ephesians4:6 one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all." 
Ephesians4:7 But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of the gift of Christ. 
Ephesians4:8 Therefore He says: “When He ascended on high, He led captivity captive, and gave gifts to men.”" 
Ephesians4:9 (In saying, “He ascended,” what does it mean but that He also descended first into the lower parts of the earth?" 
Ephesians4:10 He who descended is also He who ascended far above all the heavens that He might fill all things.) 
Ephesians4:11 He gave some to be apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers," 
Ephesians4:12 for the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, and for the building up of the body of Christ," 
Ephesians4:13 until we all come into the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, into a complete man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ," 
Ephesians4:14 so we may no longer be children, tossed here and there by waves and carried about with every wind of teaching by the trickery of men, by craftiness with deceitful scheming." 
Ephesians4:15 But, speaking the truth in love, we may grow up in all things into Him, who is the head, Christ Himself," 
Ephesians4:16 from whom the whole body is joined together and connected by every joint and ligament, as every part effectively does its work and grows, building itself up in love." 
Ephesians4:17 Therefore this I say and testify in the Lord, that from now on you walk not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their minds," 
Ephesians4:18 having their understanding darkened, excluded from the life of God through the ignorance that is within them, due to the hardness of their hearts." 
Ephesians4:19 Being calloused they have given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. 
Ephesians4:20 But you did not learn about Christ in this manner," 
Ephesians4:21 if indeed you have heard Him and have been taught by Him, as the truth is in Jesus:" 
Ephesians4:22 that you put off the former way of life in the old nature, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts," 
Ephesians4:23 and be renewed in the spirit of your mind; 
Ephesians4:24 and that you put on the new nature, which was created according to God in righteousness and true holiness." 
Ephesians4:25 Therefore, putting away lying, let every man speak truthfully with his neighbor, for we are members of one another." 
Ephesians4:26 Be angry but do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. 
Ephesians4:27 Do not give place to the devil. 
Ephesians4:28 Let him who steals steal no more. Instead, let him labor, working with his hands things which are good, that he may have something to share with him who is in need." 
Ephesians4:29 Let no unwholesome word proceed out of your mouth, but only that which is good for building up, that it may give grace to the listeners." 
Ephesians4:30 And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you are sealed for the day of redemption." 
Ephesians4:31 Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, outbursts, and blasphemies, with all malice, be taken away from you." 
Ephesians4:32 And be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, just as God in Christ also forgave you." 
Ephesians5:1 Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. 
Ephesians5:2 Walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave Himself for us as a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God." 
Ephesians5:3 And do not let sexual immorality, or any impurity, or greed be named among you, as these are not proper among saints." 
Ephesians5:4 Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse joking, which are not fitting. Instead, give thanks." 
Ephesians5:5 For this you know, that no sexually immoral or impure person, or one who is greedy, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God." 
Ephesians5:6 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience." 
Ephesians5:7 Therefore do not be partakers with them. 
Ephesians5:8 For you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light —" 
Ephesians5:9 for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth — 
Ephesians5:10 proving what is pleasing to the Lord. 
Ephesians5:11 And do not have fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness; instead, expose them." 
Ephesians5:12 For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. 
Ephesians5:13 But all things are exposed when they are revealed by the light, for everything that becomes visible is light." 
Ephesians5:14 Therefore He says: “Awake, you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light.”" 
Ephesians5:15 See then that you walk carefully, not as fools, but as wise men," 
Ephesians5:16 making the most of the time because the days are evil. 
Ephesians5:17 Therefore do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is." 
Ephesians5:18 Do not be drunk with wine, for that is reckless living. But be filled with the Spirit." 
Ephesians5:19 Speak to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord." 
Ephesians5:20 Give thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Ephesians5:21 being submissive to one another in the fear of God. 
Ephesians5:22 Wives, be submissive to your own husbands as unto the Lord." 
Ephesians5:23 For the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head and Savior of the church, which is His body." 
Ephesians5:24 But as the church submits to Christ, so also let the wives be to their own husbands in everything." 
Ephesians5:25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for it," 
Ephesians5:26 that He might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word," 
Ephesians5:27 and that He might present to Himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish." 
Ephesians5:28 In this way men ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. 
Ephesians5:29 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord cares for the church." 
Ephesians5:30 For we are members of His body, of His flesh and of His bones." 
Ephesians5:31 “For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.”" 
Ephesians5:32 This is a great mystery, but I am speaking about Christ and the church." 
Ephesians5:33 However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband." 
Ephesians6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right." 
Ephesians6:2 “Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise," 
Ephesians6:3 “so that it may be well with you and you may live long on the earth.” 
Ephesians6:4 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord." 
Ephesians6:5 Servants, obey those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in sincerity of your heart, as to Christ," 
Ephesians6:6 not serving when eyes are on you as pleasing men, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart," 
Ephesians6:7 with good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men," 
Ephesians6:8 knowing that whatever good thing any man does, he will receive the same from the Lord, whether he is enslaved or free." 
Ephesians6:9 And masters, do the same things for them, no longer threatening, knowing that your Master also is in heaven, and there is no partiality with Him." 
Ephesians6:10 Finally, my brothers, be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might." 
Ephesians6:11 Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. 
Ephesians6:12 For our fight is not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, and against spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places." 
Ephesians6:13 Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to resist in the evil day, and having done all, to stand." 
Ephesians6:14 Stand therefore, having your waist girded with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness," 
Ephesians6:15 having your feet fitted with the readiness of the gospel of peace," 
Ephesians6:16 and above all, taking the shield of faith, with which you will be able to extinguish all the fiery arrows of the evil one." 
Ephesians6:17 Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God." 
Ephesians6:18 Pray in the Spirit always with all kinds of prayer and supplication. To that end be alert with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. 
Ephesians6:19 Pray for me, that the power to speak may be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel," 
Ephesians6:20 for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may speak boldly as I ought to speak." 
Ephesians6:21 Now that you also may know my activities and how I am doing, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make everything known to you." 
Ephesians6:22 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you might know our activities and that he might comfort your hearts." 
Ephesians6:23 Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Ephesians6:24 Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen. 
Philippians1:1 Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:" 
Philippians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Philippians1:3 I thank my God for every reminder of you. 
Philippians1:4 In every prayer of mine for you all, I have always made requests with joy," 
Philippians1:5 due to your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. 
Philippians1:6 I am confident of this very thing, that He who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ." 
Philippians1:7 It is right for me to think this of you all because I have you in my heart, since both in my imprisonments and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are fellow partakers of my grace." 
Philippians1:8 For God is my witness, how I long after you all with the affection of Jesus Christ." 
Philippians1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all discernment," 
Philippians1:10 that you may approve things that are excellent so that you may be pure and blameless for the day of Christ," 
Philippians1:11 being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which comes through Jesus Christ, for the glory and praise of God." 
Philippians1:12 But I want you to know, brothers, that the things which happened to me have resulted in advancing the gospel," 
Philippians1:13 so that my imprisonments in Christ have become known throughout the entire palace guard and to all the rest. 
Philippians1:14 And a great many of the brothers in the Lord, having become confident because of my incarcerations, have dared to speak the word without fear." 
Philippians1:15 Some indeed are preaching Christ out of envy and strife, and some also from good will." 
Philippians1:16 The former preach Christ out of contention, not sincerely, intending to add trouble to my circumstance." 
Philippians1:17 But the latter preach out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel." 
Philippians1:18 What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice. Indeed, I will rejoice." 
Philippians1:19 For I know that through your prayer and the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will result in my deliverance." 
Philippians1:20 Accordingly, it is my earnest expectation and my hope that I shall be ashamed in nothing, but that with all boldness as always, so now also, Christ will be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death." 
Philippians1:21 For to me, to continue living is Christ, and to die is gain." 
Philippians1:22 But if I am to live on in the body, this will mean fruitful labor to me. Yet I do not know what I shall choose." 
Philippians1:23 I am in a difficult position between the two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better." 
Philippians1:24 Nevertheless, to remain in the body is more needful for your sake." 
Philippians1:25 Having this confidence, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your joyful advancement of the faith," 
Philippians1:26 so that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ when I am in your presence again. 
Philippians1:27 Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether or not I come and see you, I may hear of your activities, that you are standing fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel," 
Philippians1:28 and not in any way frightened by your adversaries. This is a sign to them of their destruction, but to you of salvation, and that from God." 
Philippians1:29 For to you it was granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake," 
Philippians1:30 having the same conflict which you saw in me and now hear is in me. 
Philippians2:1 If there is any encouragement in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any compassion and mercy," 
Philippians2:2 then fulfill my joy and be like-minded, having the same love, being in unity with one mind." 
Philippians2:3 Let nothing be done out of strife or conceit, but in humility let each esteem the other better than himself." 
Philippians2:4 Let each of you look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others." 
Philippians2:5 Let this mind be in you all, which was also in Christ Jesus," 
Philippians2:6 who, being in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped." 
Philippians2:7 But He emptied Himself, taking upon Himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men." 
Philippians2:8 And being found in the form of a man, He humbled Himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross." 
Philippians2:9 Therefore God highly exalted Him and gave Him the name which is above every name," 
Philippians2:10 that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and on earth and under the earth," 
Philippians2:11 and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father." 
Philippians2:12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but so much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling." 
Philippians2:13 For God is the One working in you, both to will and to do His good pleasure." 
Philippians2:14 Do all things without murmuring and disputing," 
Philippians2:15 that you may be blameless and harmless, sons of God, without fault, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, in which you shine as lights in the world." 
Philippians2:16 Hold forth the word of life that I may rejoice on the day of Christ that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. 
Philippians2:17 Yes, and even if I am offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I take delight and rejoice with you all." 
Philippians2:18 For this reason you also take delight and rejoice with me. 
Philippians2:19 I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly to you, that I also may be of good comfort when I get word concerning you." 
Philippians2:20 For I have no one like-minded, who will sincerely care for your welfare." 
Philippians2:21 For all seek their own, not the things of Christ Jesus." 
Philippians2:22 But you know of his proven worth, that as a son with a father, he has served with me in the gospel." 
Philippians2:23 Therefore I hope to send him soon after my situation is resolved. 
Philippians2:24 But I trust in the Lord that I, myself, shall also come shortly." 
Philippians2:25 Yet I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, who is my brother and companion in labor, fellow soldier, your messenger, and he who ministered to my necessity." 
Philippians2:26 For he longed after you all and was filled with heaviness, because you heard that he was sick." 
Philippians2:27 Indeed he was sick, near death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also on me, lest I should have had sorrow upon sorrow." 
Philippians2:28 Therefore I sent him the more eagerly, that when you see him again, you may rejoice and I may be less sorrowful." 
Philippians2:29 So receive him in the Lord with all joy. And hold such ones in high regard," 
Philippians2:30 because for the work of Christ he was near death, not regarding his life, endeavoring to make up for your lack of service toward me." 
Philippians3:1 Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me, and it is reassuring for you." 
Philippians3:2 Watch out for dogs, watch out for evil workers, watch out for those who practice mutilation." 
Philippians3:3 For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, and boast in Christ Jesus, and place no trust in the flesh," 
Philippians3:4 though I also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he has reason to trust in the flesh, I have more:" 
Philippians3:5 I was circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and a Hebrew of Hebrews; as concerning the law, a Pharisee;" 
Philippians3:5 I was circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and a Hebrew of Hebrews; as concerning the law, a Pharisee;" 
Philippians3:6 concerning zeal, persecuting the church; and concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless." 
Philippians3:7 But what things were gain to me, I have counted these things to be loss for the sake of Christ." 
Philippians3:8 Yes, certainly, I count everything as loss for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have forfeited the loss of all things and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ," 
Philippians3:9 and be found in Him, not having my own righteousness which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God on the basis of faith," 
Philippians3:10 to know Him, and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death," 
Philippians3:11 if somehow I might make it to the resurrection of the dead. 
Philippians3:12 Not that I have already attained or have already been perfected, but I follow after it so that I may lay hold of that for which I was seized by Christ Jesus." 
Philippians3:13 Brothers, I do not count myself to have attained, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead," 
Philippians3:14 I press toward the goal to the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. 
Philippians3:15 Therefore let those of us who are mature be thus minded. And if you think differently in any way, God will reveal even this to you." 
Philippians3:16 Nevertheless, according to what we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us be of the same mind." 
Philippians3:17 Brothers, become fellow imitators with me and observe those who walk according to our example." 
Philippians3:18 For many are walking in such a way that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. I have told you of them often and tell you again, even weeping." 
Philippians3:19 Their destination is destruction, their god is their appetite, their glory is in their shame, their minds are set on earthly things." 
Philippians3:20 But our citizenship is in heaven, and it is from there that we wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ," 
Philippians3:21 who will transform our body of humiliation, so that it may be conformed to His glorious body, according to the working of His power, even to subdue all things to Himself." 
Philippians4:1 Therefore, my beloved and longed-for brothers, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved." 
Philippians4:2 I exhort Euodia and Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord. 
Philippians4:3 I ask you also, true companion, help those women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with my other fellow laborers, whose names are in the Book of Life." 
Philippians4:4 Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice!" 
Philippians4:5 Let everyone come to know your gentleness. The Lord is near. 
Philippians4:6 Be anxious for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with gratitude, make your requests known to God." 
Philippians4:7 And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will protect your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus." 
Philippians4:8 Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honest, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, think on these things." 
Philippians4:9 Do those things which you have both learned and received, and heard and seen in me, and the God of peace will be with you." 
Philippians4:10 I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you have revived your concern for me. Regarding this, you did care, but you lacked opportunity." 
Philippians4:11 I do not speak because I have need, for I have learned in whatever state I am to be content." 
Philippians4:12 I know both how to face humble circumstances and how to have abundance. Everywhere and in all things I have learned the secret, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need." 
Philippians4:13 I can do all things, because of Christ who strengthens me." 
Philippians4:14 Nevertheless you did well having shared in my affliction. 
Philippians4:15 Now you Philippians know also, that in the beginning of the gospel when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, except you alone." 
Philippians4:16 Even in Thessalonica, you sent aid once and again for my necessity," 
Philippians4:17 not because I desired a gift, but I desire fruit that accumulates to your account." 
Philippians4:18 But I have everything and abound. I have been filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, like a sweet fragrance, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God." 
Philippians4:19 But my God shall supply your every need according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus. 
Philippians4:20 Now to God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Philippians4:21 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 
Philippians4:22 All the saints greet you, especially those who are of Caesar’s household." 
Philippians4:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
Colossians1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Timothy our brother," 
Colossians1:2 To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ who are at Colosse: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Colossians1:3 We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you." 
Colossians1:4 For we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and your love for all the saints," 
Colossians1:5 because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you have already heard in the word of the truth of the gospel," 
Colossians1:6 which has come to you, as it has in all the world, and brings forth fruit, as it has also in you, since the day you heard it and knew the grace of God in truth." 
Colossians1:7 And you also learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ for you," 
Colossians1:8 who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. 
Colossians1:9 For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;" 
Colossians1:10 that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, pleasing to all, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God," 
Colossians1:11 strengthened with all might according to His glorious power, enduring everything with perseverance and patience joyfully," 
Colossians1:12 giving thanks to the Father, who has enabled us to be partakers in the inheritance of the saints in light." 
Colossians1:13 He has delivered us from the power of darkness and has transferred us into the kingdom of His dear Son," 
Colossians1:14 in whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins." 
Colossians1:15 He is the image of the invisible God and the firstborn of every creature. 
Colossians1:16 For by Him all things were created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they are thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers. All things were created by Him and for Him." 
Colossians1:17 He is before all things, and in Him all things hold together." 
Colossians1:18 He is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that in all things He may have the preeminence." 
Colossians1:19 For it pleased the Father that in Him all fullness should dwell," 
Colossians1:20 and to reconcile all things to Himself by Him, having made peace through the blood of His cross, by Him, I say—whether they are things in earth, or things in heaven." 
Colossians1:21 And you, who were formerly alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now He has reconciled" 
Colossians1:22 in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in His sight," 
Colossians1:23 if you continue in the faith, established and firm, and are not removed from the hope of the gospel, which you have heard, and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven, and of which I, Paul, have become a servant." 
Colossians1:24 Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake and fill up in my flesh that which is lacking in the afflictions of Christ, for the sake of His body, which is the church." 
Colossians1:25 I have been made a servant of it according to the commission of God, which has been given to me for you, to fulfill the word of God," 
Colossians1:26 even the mystery which has been hidden from past ages and generations, but now is revealed to His saints." 
Colossians1:27 To them God would make known what is the glorious riches of this mystery among the nations. It is Christ in you, the hope of glory," 
Colossians1:28 whom we preach, warning everyone and teaching everyone in all wisdom, so that we may present them complete in Christ Jesus." 
Colossians1:29 In this I labor, striving according to His power, which effectively works in me." 
Colossians2:1 I would like you to know what a great struggle I am having for you, and for those at Laodicea, and for everyone who has not seen my face in the body," 
Colossians2:2 that their hearts may be comforted, being knit together in love, and receive all the riches and assurance of full understanding, and knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ," 
Colossians2:3 in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. 
Colossians2:4 Now this I say lest anyone beguile you with enticing words. 
Colossians2:5 For though I am absent in the body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing and seeing your orderliness and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ." 
Colossians2:6 As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him," 
Colossians2:7 rooted and built up in Him, and established in the faith, just as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving." 
Colossians2:8 Beware lest anyone captivate you through philosophy and vain deceit, in the tradition of men and the elementary principles of the world, and not after Christ." 
Colossians2:9 For in Him lives all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. 
Colossians2:10 And you are complete in Him, who is the head of all authority and power." 
Colossians2:11 In Him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ," 
Colossians2:12 buried with Him in baptism, in which also you were raised with Him through the faith of the power of God, who has raised Him from the dead." 
Colossians2:13 And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, He has resurrected together with Him, having forgiven you all sins." 
Colossians2:14 He blotted out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us and contrary to us, and He took it out of the way, nailing it to the cross." 
Colossians2:15 And having disarmed authorities and powers, He made a show of them openly, triumphing over them by the cross." 
Colossians2:16 Therefore let no one judge you regarding food, or drink, or in respect of a holy day or new moon or sabbath days." 
Colossians2:17 These are shadows of things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ." 
Colossians2:18 Do not let anyone cheat you of your reward by delighting in false humility and the worship of angels, dwelling on those things which he has not seen, vainly arrogant due to his unspiritual mind," 
Colossians2:19 and not supporting the head, from which the entire body, nourished and knit together by joints and sinews, grows as God gives the increase." 
Colossians2:20 Therefore, if you died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world, why, as if you were living in the world, do you subject yourself to legalistic rules?" 
Colossians2:21 “Do not touch! Do not taste! Do not handle!” 
Colossians2:22 These all are to perish with use and are aligned with the commandments and teachings of men. 
Colossians2:23 These things have indeed a show of wisdom in self-imposed worship and humility and neglecting of the body, but are worthless against the indulgence of the flesh." 
Colossians3:1 If you then were raised with Christ, desire those things which are above, where Christ sits at the right hand of God." 
Colossians3:2 Set your affection on things above, not on things on earth." 
Colossians3:3 For you are dead, and your life is hidden with Christ in God." 
Colossians3:4 When Christ who is our life shall appear, then you also shall appear with Him in glory." 
Colossians3:5 Therefore put to death the parts of your earthly nature: sexual immorality, impurity, inordinate affection, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry." 
Colossians3:6 Because of these things, the wrath of God comes on the sons of disobedience." 
Colossians3:7 You also once walked in these, when you lived in them." 
Colossians3:8 But now you must also put away all these: anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, and filthy language out of your mouth." 
Colossians3:9 Do not lie one to another, since you have put off the old nature with its deeds," 
Colossians3:10 and have embraced the new nature, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of Him who created it," 
Colossians3:11 where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and in all." 
Colossians3:12 So embrace, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, a spirit of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, and longsuffering." 
Colossians3:13 Bear with one another and forgive one another. If anyone has a quarrel against anyone, even as Christ forgave you, so you must do." 
Colossians3:14 And above all these things, embrace love, which is the bond of perfection." 
Colossians3:15 Let the peace of God, to which also you are called in one body, rule in your hearts. And be thankful." 
Colossians3:16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord." 
Colossians3:17 And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him." 
Colossians3:18 Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as it is fitting in the Lord." 
Colossians3:19 Husbands, love your wives, and do not be bitter toward them." 
Colossians3:20 Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord." 
Colossians3:21 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, lest they be discouraged." 
Colossians3:22 Servants, obey your masters in all things according to the flesh, serving not only when they are watching, as the servants of men, but in singleness of heart, fearing God." 
Colossians3:23 And whatever you do, do it heartily, as for the Lord and not for men," 
Colossians3:24 knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. For you serve the Lord Christ. 
Colossians3:25 But he who does wrong will receive for the wrong which he has done, and there is no partiality." 
Colossians4:1 Masters, give to your servants that which is just and fair, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven." 
Colossians4:2 Continue in prayer, and be watchful with thanksgiving," 
Colossians4:3 while praying also for us, that God would open to us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains," 
Colossians4:4 that I may reveal it clearly, as I ought to speak." 
Colossians4:5 Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, wisely using the opportunity." 
Colossians4:6 Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you should answer everyone." 
Colossians4:7 Tychicus, who is a beloved brother and a faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me." 
Colossians4:8 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that he might know your circumstances and comfort your hearts," 
Colossians4:9 with Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you everything which is happening here." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus my fellow prisoner greets you, with Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received instructions: If he comes to you, receive him)," 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus my fellow prisoner greets you, with Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received instructions: If he comes to you, receive him)," 
Colossians4:11 and Jesus, who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are of the circumcision. They have been a comfort to me." 
Colossians4:12 Epaphras greets you. He is one of you, a servant of Christ, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand mature and complete in the entire will of God." 
Colossians4:13 I bear witness of him, that he has a great zeal for you, those who are in Laodicea, and those in Hierapolis." 
Colossians4:14 Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you." 
Colossians4:14 Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you." 
Colossians4:15 Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, and Nympha, and the church which is in his house." 
Colossians4:16 When this epistle is read among you, ensure that it is read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and that you, likewise, read the epistle from Laodicea." 
Colossians4:17 Tell Archippus, “Make sure that you fulfill the ministry which you have received in the Lord.”" 
Colossians4:18 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen." 
1Thessalonians1:1 Paul, Silas, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians1:2 We give thanks to God always for you all, mentioning you in our prayers," 
1Thessalonians1:3 remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patient hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and our Father." 
1Thessalonians1:4 For we know, beloved brothers, your election by God." 
1Thessalonians1:5 For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and in much assurance, just as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake." 
1Thessalonians1:6 You became followers of us and the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Spirit." 
1Thessalonians1:7 Therefore you were examples to all who believe in Macedonia and Achaia. 
1Thessalonians1:8 For the word of the Lord sounded out from you not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith in God has gone forth, so that we do not need to say anything." 
1Thessalonians1:9 For they themselves declare how we were received by you, and how you turned to God from idols, to serve the living and true God," 
1Thessalonians1:10 and to wait for His Son from heaven, whom He raised from the dead —Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come." 
1Thessalonians2:1 You yourselves know, brothers, that our visit to you was not in vain." 
1Thessalonians2:2 But even after we had previously suffered and were shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to declare to you the gospel of God amid much opposition." 
1Thessalonians2:3 For our exhortation was not from deceit, nor from impure motive, nor in treachery." 
1Thessalonians2:4 But as we were allowed by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak, not to please men, but God, who examines our hearts." 
1Thessalonians2:5 For neither at any time did we come with flattering words, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed. God is our witness." 
1Thessalonians2:6 Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you, or from others, even though we might have made demands as the apostles of Christ." 
1Thessalonians2:7 But we were gentle among you, like a nurse caring for her own children." 
1Thessalonians2:8 So having great love toward you, we were willing to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own lives, because you were dear to us." 
1Thessalonians2:9 For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil. Laboring night and day so as not to be an expense to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God." 
1Thessalonians2:10 You and God are witnesses of how pure, upright, and blameless we ourselves behaved among you who believe." 
1Thessalonians2:11 As you know, we exhorted, comforted, and commanded every one of you, as a father does his own children," 
1Thessalonians2:12 that you would walk in a manner worthy of God, who has called you to His kingdom and glory." 
1Thessalonians2:13 For this reason we thank God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you received it not as the word of men, but as it truly is, the word of God, which effectively works also in you who believe." 
1Thessalonians2:14 For you, brothers, became followers of the churches of God, which in Judea are in Christ Jesus. You also have suffered the same things from your own countrymen, as they have from the Jews," 
1Thessalonians2:14 For you, brothers, became followers of the churches of God, which in Judea are in Christ Jesus. You also have suffered the same things from your own countrymen, as they have from the Jews," 
1Thessalonians2:15 who both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets and have persecuted us. They do not please God and are contrary to all men," 
1Thessalonians2:16 forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved. In this way they are always piling up their sins, but wrath has come upon them to the extreme." 
1Thessalonians2:17 But we, brothers, being taken from you for a short time, in presence, not in heart, endeavored all the more abundantly to see your face with great desire." 
1Thessalonians2:18 Therefore we wished to come to you—even I, Paul, once and again—but Satan hindered us." 
1Thessalonians2:19 For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Will it not even be you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming?" 
1Thessalonians2:20 You are our glory and joy. 
1Thessalonians3:1 Therefore, when we could no longer endure it, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone." 
1Thessalonians3:2 We sent Timothy, who is our brother and minister of God and our fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ, to establish and comfort you with regard to your faith," 
1Thessalonians3:3 so that no one would be shaken by these afflictions. For you know that we are appointed to this. 
1Thessalonians3:4 Indeed, we told you before when we were with you that we would suffer tribulation, just as it came to pass, as you well know." 
1Thessalonians3:5 For this reason, when I could no longer endure it, I sent to inquire about your faith, lest by some means the tempter might have tempted you, and our labor might have been in vain." 
1Thessalonians3:6 But just now Timothy has come from you to us and brought us good news of your faith and love, and that you always have good memories of us, desiring greatly to see us, as we also desire to see you." 
1Thessalonians3:7 Therefore, brothers, during all our afflictions and distress, we have been encouraged about you through your faith." 
1Thessalonians3:8 For now we live, if you stand strong in the Lord." 
1Thessalonians3:9 For what thanks can we render to God for you, for all the joy with which we rejoice for your sakes before our God," 
1Thessalonians3:10 night and day praying earnestly that we might see your face and might complete that which is lacking in your faith? 
1Thessalonians3:11 Now may our God and Father Himself, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way to you." 
1Thessalonians3:12 And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all men, even as we do for you." 
1Thessalonians3:13 To this end may He establish your hearts to be blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all His saints. 
1Thessalonians4:1 Finally, brothers, we urge and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as you have learned from us how you ought to walk and to please God, you should excel more and more." 
1Thessalonians4:2 For you know what commands we gave you through the Lord Jesus. 
1Thessalonians4:3 For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you should abstain from sexual immorality," 
1Thessalonians4:4 that each one of you should know how to possess his own body in sanctification and honor," 
1Thessalonians4:5 not in lustful passion, even as the Gentiles who do not know God," 
1Thessalonians4:6 and that no man take advantage of and defraud his brother in any matter, because the Lord is the avenger in all these things, as we also have forewarned you and testified." 
1Thessalonians4:7 For God has not called us to impurity, but to holiness." 
1Thessalonians4:8 Therefore he that despises does not despise man, but God, who has also given us His Holy Spirit." 
1Thessalonians4:9 As concerning brotherly love, you do not need me to write to you. For you yourselves are taught by God to love one another;" 
1Thessalonians4:10 and indeed, you do love all the brothers who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do so more and more," 
1Thessalonians4:11 to aspire to live a quiet life, to attend to your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you," 
1Thessalonians4:12 so that you may walk honestly toward those who are outsiders and that you may lack nothing. 
1Thessalonians4:13 But I would not have you ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others who have no hope." 
1Thessalonians4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and arose again, so God will bring with Him those who sleep in Jesus." 
1Thessalonians4:15 For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who are asleep." 
1Thessalonians4:16 For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet call of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first." 
1Thessalonians4:17 Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we shall be forever with the Lord. 
1Thessalonians4:18 Therefore comfort one another with these words. 
1Thessalonians5:1 Concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need that I write to you." 
1Thessalonians5:2 For you know perfectly that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. 
1Thessalonians5:3 When they say, “Peace and safety!” then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape." 
1Thessalonians5:4 But you, brothers, are not in darkness so that this Day should overtake you as a thief." 
1Thessalonians5:5 You are all the sons of light and the sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness. 
1Thessalonians5:6 Therefore let us not sleep as others do. But let us be alert and sober. 
1Thessalonians5:7 For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night." 
1Thessalonians5:8 But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation." 
1Thessalonians5:9 For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Thessalonians5:10 who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we should live together with Him." 
1Thessalonians5:11 So comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, just as you are doing." 
1Thessalonians5:12 We ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you, and are appointed over you in the Lord, and instruct you." 
1Thessalonians5:13 Esteem them very highly in love for their work’s sake. And be at peace among yourselves. 
1Thessalonians5:14 Now we exhort you, brothers, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, support the weak, and be patient toward everyone." 
1Thessalonians5:15 See that no one renders evil for evil to anyone. But always seek to do good to one another and to all. 
1Thessalonians5:16 Rejoice always. 
1Thessalonians5:17 Pray without ceasing. 
1Thessalonians5:18 In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you." 
1Thessalonians5:19 Do not quench the Spirit. 
1Thessalonians5:20 Do not despise prophecies. 
1Thessalonians5:21 Examine all things. Firmly hold onto what is good. 
1Thessalonians5:22 Abstain from all appearances of evil. 
1Thessalonians5:23 May the very God of peace sanctify you completely. And I pray to God that your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians5:24 Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it." 
1Thessalonians5:25 Brothers, pray for us." 
1Thessalonians5:26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
1Thessalonians5:27 I command you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the holy brothers. 
1Thessalonians5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
2Thessalonians1:1 Paul, and Silas, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:" 
2Thessalonians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
2Thessalonians1:3 We are bound to thank God always for you, brothers, as it is fitting, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you abounds toward each other." 
2Thessalonians1:4 So we boast about you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you are enduring. 
2Thessalonians1:5 This is evidence that God’s judgment, being righteous, will count you worthy of the kingdom of God for which you are suffering." 
2Thessalonians1:6 It is a righteous matter with God to repay with tribulation those who trouble you," 
2Thessalonians1:7 and to give you who are troubled rest with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with His mighty angels," 
2Thessalonians1:8 in flaming fire taking vengeance on those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
2Thessalonians1:9 They shall be punished with eternal destruction, isolated from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His power," 
2Thessalonians1:10 when He comes, in that Day, to be glorified in His saints and to be marveled at by all those who believe, because our testimony among you was believed." 
2Thessalonians1:11 Therefore we always pray for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling and with power fulfill all your good desires and works done by faith," 
2Thessalonians1:12 so that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:1 Now, brothers, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and concerning our gathering together unto Him, we ask you" 
2Thessalonians2:2 not to let your mind be quickly shaken or be troubled, neither in spirit nor by word, nor by letter coming as though from us, as if the day of Christ is already here." 
2Thessalonians2:3 Do not let anyone deceive you in any way. For that Day will not come unless a falling away comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of destruction," 
2Thessalonians2:4 who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or is worshipped, so that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself as God." 
2Thessalonians2:5 Do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things?" 
2Thessalonians2:6 Now you know what restrains him that he might be revealed in his time. 
2Thessalonians2:7 For the mystery of lawlessness is already working. Only He who is now restraining him will do so until He is taken out of the way. 
2Thessalonians2:8 Then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will consume with the breath of His mouth, and destroy with the brightness of His presence," 
2Thessalonians2:9 even him, whose coming is in accordance with the working of Satan with all power and signs and false wonders," 
2Thessalonians2:10 and with all deception of unrighteousness among those who perish, because they did not receive the love for the truth that they might be saved." 
2Thessalonians2:11 Therefore God will send them a strong delusion, that they should believe the lie:" 
2Thessalonians2:12 that they all might be condemned who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. 
2Thessalonians2:13 But we are bound to always give thanks to God for you, beloved brothers of the Lord, because God has from the beginning chosen you for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth." 
2Thessalonians2:14 To this He called you by our gospel, to obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:15 Therefore, brothers, stand firm and hold the traditions which you have been taught, whether by word or by our letter." 
2Thessalonians2:16 Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God our Father, who has loved us and has given us eternal consolation and good hope through grace," 
2Thessalonians2:17 comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work. 
2Thessalonians3:1 Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may quickly spread and be glorified, even as it did with you." 
2Thessalonians3:2 And pray that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for not all men have faith." 
2Thessalonians3:3 But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one." 
2Thessalonians3:4 We have confidence in the Lord concerning you, that you are doing and will do the things which we command you." 
2Thessalonians3:5 May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. 
2Thessalonians3:6 Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother who walks in idleness and not according to the tradition that he received from us." 
2Thessalonians3:7 For you know how you should follow us. For we were not idle among you," 
2Thessalonians3:8 neither did we eat anyone’s bread without paying for it, but we worked tirelessly and toiled night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you." 
2Thessalonians3:9 We did this, not because we did not have that right, but to make ourselves an example for you to follow." 
2Thessalonians3:10 For when we were with you, we commanded you that if any will not work, neither shall he eat." 
2Thessalonians3:11 For we hear that there are some among you who live in idleness, mere busybodies, not working at all." 
2Thessalonians3:12 Now, concerning those who are such, we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ that they quietly work and eat their own bread." 
2Thessalonians3:13 But you, brothers, do not be weary in doing good." 
2Thessalonians3:14 If anyone does not obey our word in this letter, note that man, and do not socialize with him, so that he may be ashamed." 
2Thessalonians3:15 Still, do not count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother." 
2Thessalonians3:16 Now may the Lord of peace Himself give you peace always in every way. The Lord be with you all. 
2Thessalonians3:17 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand, and this is the distinguishing mark in every letter: So I write." 
2Thessalonians3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
1Timothy1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the command of God our Savior, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope," 
1Timothy1:2 To Timothy, my true son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord." 
1Timothy1:3 As I urged you when I went into Macedonia, continue to remain at Ephesus so that you might command some to teach no other teaching," 
1Timothy1:4 nor pay attention to fables and endless genealogies, which cause debates rather than godly edifying, which is in faith." 
1Timothy1:5 Now the goal of this command is love from a pure heart, and from a good conscience, and from sincere faith." 
1Timothy1:6 From this, some have lost their way and turned aside to empty talk," 
1Timothy1:7 desiring to be teachers of the law, and understanding neither what they say nor what they affirm." 
1Timothy1:8 But we know that the law is good if someone uses it lawfully. 
1Timothy1:9 And we know that the law is not given for a righteous person, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for the unholy and the profane, for those who kill their fathers and mothers, for murderers," 
1Timothy1:10 for the sexually immoral, for practicing homosexuals, for slave traders, for liars, for perjurers, and for anything else that is contrary to sound teaching," 
1Timothy1:11 according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust." 
1Timothy1:12 I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has enabled me, because He counted me faithful and appointed me to the ministry." 
1Timothy1:13 I was previously a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and an insolent man. But I was shown mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief." 
1Timothy1:14 The grace of our Lord overflowed with the faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 
1Timothy1:15 This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the worst." 
1Timothy1:16 But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, first, Jesus Christ might show all patience, as an example to those who were to believe in Him for eternal life." 
1Timothy1:17 Now to the eternal, immortal, invisible King, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever. Amen." 
1Timothy1:18 This command I commit to you, my son Timothy, according to the prophecies that were previously given to you, that by them you might fight a good fight," 
1Timothy1:19 keeping faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and suffered shipwreck in regard to their faith." 
1Timothy1:20 Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme." 
1Timothy2:1 Therefore I exhort first of all that you make supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings for everyone," 
1Timothy2:2 for kings and for all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty," 
1Timothy2:3 for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior," 
1Timothy2:4 who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
1Timothy2:5 There is one God and one mediator between God and men, the Man Christ Jesus," 
1Timothy2:6 who gave Himself as a ransom for all. This was the testimony given at the proper time. 
1Timothy2:7 For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle (I speak the truth in Christ and do not lie), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth." 
1Timothy2:8 Therefore I desire that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands, without wrath or contentiousness." 
1Timothy2:9 In like manner also, that women clothe themselves in modest clothing, with decency and self-control, not with braided hair, gold, pearls, or expensive clothing," 
1Timothy2:10 but with good works, which is proper for women professing godliness." 
1Timothy2:11 Let a woman learn in silence with all obedience. 
1Timothy2:12 I do not permit a woman to teach or to usurp authority over a man, but to be silent." 
1Timothy2:13 For Adam was formed first, then Eve." 
1Timothy2:14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman, being deceived, fell into sin." 
1Timothy2:15 Yet she will be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, and holiness, with self-control." 
1Timothy3:1 This is a faithful saying: If a man desires the office of an overseer, he desires a good work." 
1Timothy3:2 An overseer then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, sober, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach;" 
1Timothy3:3 not given to drunkenness, not violent, not greedy for money, but patient, not argumentative, not covetous;" 
1Timothy3:4 and one who manages his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence." 
1Timothy3:5 For if a man does not know how to manage his own house, how will he take care of the church of God?" 
1Timothy3:6 He must not be newly converted, so that he does not become prideful and fall into the condemnation of the devil." 
1Timothy3:7 Moreover he must have a good reputation among those who are outsiders, so that he does not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil." 
1Timothy3:8 Likewise deacons must be honorable, not insincere, not given to much wine, not greedy," 
1Timothy3:9 keeping the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. 
1Timothy3:10 And let them first be tested; then, being found blameless, let them serve as deacons." 
1Timothy3:11 Likewise, the women must be honorable, not slanderers, sober, and faithful in all things." 
1Timothy3:12 Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, managing their children and their own houses well." 
1Timothy3:13 For those who have served well in the office of deacon purchase for themselves good standing and great boldness in the faith, which is in Christ Jesus." 
1Timothy3:14 I am writing these things to you, hoping to come to you shortly," 
1Timothy3:15 but if I am delayed, you might know how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and foundation of the truth." 
1Timothy3:16 Without question, great is the mystery of godliness: God was revealed in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen by angels, preached to the Gentiles, believed on in the world, taken up into glory." 
1Timothy4:1 Now the Spirit clearly says that in the last times some will depart from the faith and pay attention to seducing spirits and teaching of devils," 
1Timothy4:2 speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their consciences seared with a hot iron," 
1Timothy4:3 forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from foods, which God has created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth." 
1Timothy4:4 For everything created by God is good, and not to be refused if it is received with thanksgiving," 
1Timothy4:5 for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. 
1Timothy4:6 If you remind the brothers of these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished by the words of faith and of good teaching, which you have followed closely." 
1Timothy4:7 But refuse profane and foolish myths. Instead, exercise in the ways of godliness." 
1Timothy4:8 For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable in all things, holding promise for the present life and also for the life to come." 
1Timothy4:9 This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. 
1Timothy4:10 For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe." 
1Timothy4:11 Command and teach these things. 
1Timothy4:12 Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in speech, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, and in purity." 
1Timothy4:13 Until I come, give attention to reading, exhortation, and teaching." 
1Timothy4:14 Do not neglect the gift that is in you, which was given to you by prophecy, with the laying on of hands by the elders." 
1Timothy4:15 Meditate on these things. Give yourself completely to them, that your progress may be known to everyone." 
1Timothy4:16 Take heed to yourself and to the teaching. Continue in them, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you." 
1Timothy5:1 Do not rebuke an elder, but exhort him as a father, the younger men as brothers," 
1Timothy5:2 the elder women as mothers, and the younger women as sisters, with complete purity." 
1Timothy5:3 Honor widows that are widows indeed. 
1Timothy5:4 But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn first to show piety at home and to repay their parents. For this is good and acceptable before God." 
1Timothy5:5 Now she who is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusts in God, and continues in supplications and prayers night and day." 
1Timothy5:6 But she who lives in pleasure is dead while she lives. 
1Timothy5:7 And these things command, that they may be blameless." 
1Timothy5:8 But if any do not care for their own, and especially for those of their own house, they have denied the faith and are worse than unbelievers." 
1Timothy5:9 Do not let a widow be counted unless she is over sixty years old, has been the wife of one man," 
1Timothy5:10 is well attested in good works, if she has brought up children, has lodged strangers, has washed the saints’ feet, has relieved the afflicted, and has diligently followed every good work." 
1Timothy5:11 But refuse the younger widows, for when their sensual desires have drawn them away from Christ, they want to marry," 
1Timothy5:12 and bring judgment on themselves, because they have cast off their first pledge." 
1Timothy5:13 Besides that, they learn to be idle, and not only idle, wandering around from house to house, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they ought not." 
1Timothy5:14 Therefore I desire that the younger women marry, bear children, manage the house, and give no occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully." 
1Timothy5:15 For some have already turned aside after Satan. 
1Timothy5:16 If any believing man or woman has widows, let those assist them. Do not let the church be charged, so that it may relieve those who are widows indeed." 
1Timothy5:17 Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and teaching." 
1Timothy5:18 For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle the ox that treads out the grain,” and, “The laborer is worthy of his reward.”" 
1Timothy5:19 Do not receive an accusation against an elder, except before two or three witnesses." 
1Timothy5:20 Rebuke in the presence of everyone those who sin, that the rest also may fear." 
1Timothy5:21 I command you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing by partiality." 
1Timothy5:22 Do not lay hands suddenly on anyone, and do not partake of other men’s sins. Keep yourself pure." 
1Timothy5:23 No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for your stomach’s sake and your frequent illnesses." 
1Timothy5:24 Some men’s sins are evident, pointing to judgment, but other men’s sins are revealed later." 
1Timothy5:25 Likewise, the good works of some are evident, but those that are not cannot be hidden." 
1Timothy6:1 Let as many servants as are under the yoke of slavery count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and His teaching may not be slandered." 
1Timothy6:2 Let those who have believing masters not despise them, because they are brothers. Instead, let them serve as slaves, because those who receive their service are faithful and beloved. Teach and command these things." 
1Timothy6:3 Anyone who teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, to the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to godly teaching" 
1Timothy6:4 is conceited and knows nothing. He has a morbid disposition for controversy and verbal disputes, from which come envy, strife, blasphemies, evil speculations," 
1Timothy6:5 constant disputes by men of corrupt minds, being destitute of the truth, and supposing that financial gain is godliness. Withdraw yourself from such men." 
1Timothy6:6 But godliness with contentment is great gain. 
1Timothy6:7 For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out." 
1Timothy6:8 If we have food and clothing, we shall be content with these things." 
1Timothy6:9 But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in ruin and destruction." 
1Timothy6:10 For the love of money is a root of all evil. While coveting after money, some have strayed from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows." 
1Timothy6:11 But you, O man of God, escape these things, and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and gentleness." 
1Timothy6:12 Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, to which you are called and have made a good confession before many witnesses." 
1Timothy6:13 I command you, in the sight of God, who gives life to all things, and in the sight of Christ Jesus, who testified a good confession before Pontius Pilate," 
1Timothy6:14 to keep this commandment without blemish, blameless until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Timothy6:15 which He, who is the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings and Lord of lords, will reveal at the proper time." 
1Timothy6:16 He alone has immortality, living in unapproachable light, whom no one has seen, nor can see. To Him be honor and everlasting power. Amen." 
1Timothy6:17 Command those who are rich in this world that they not be conceited, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who richly gives us all things to enjoy." 
1Timothy6:18 Command that they do good, that they be rich in good works, generous, willing to share," 
1Timothy6:19 and laying up in store for themselves a good foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of eternal life." 
1Timothy6:20 O Timothy, guard that which is committed to your trust. Avoid profane babblings and opposing views from so-called knowledge." 
1Timothy6:21 By professing it, some have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with you. Amen." 
2Timothy1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus," 
2Timothy1:2 To Timothy, my beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord." 
2Timothy1:3 I thank God, whom I serve with a pure conscience as my forefathers did, as I continually remember you in my prayers night and day," 
2Timothy1:4 greatly desiring to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy," 
2Timothy1:5 remembering the genuine faith that first lived in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and that I am persuaded lives in you also. 
2Timothy1:6 Therefore I remind you to stir up the gift of God, which is in you by the laying on of my hands." 
2Timothy1:7 For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and love, and self-control." 
2Timothy1:8 So do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, His prisoner. But share in the sufferings of the gospel by the power of God," 
2Timothy1:9 who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not by our works, but by His own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began," 
2Timothy1:10 but is now revealed by the appearing of our Savior, Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel," 
2Timothy1:11 for which I was appointed a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles." 
2Timothy1:12 For these things I suffer, but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed to Him until that Day." 
2Timothy1:13 Follow the pattern of sound teaching which you have heard from me in the faith and love that is in Christ Jesus. 
2Timothy1:14 Guard the treasure that was committed to you through the Holy Spirit who lives in us. 
2Timothy1:15 You know that all those who are in Asia have turned away from me, including Phygelus and Hermogenes." 
2Timothy1:16 May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains." 
2Timothy1:17 But when he arrived in Rome, he searched me out very diligently and found me." 
2Timothy1:18 May the Lord grant that he may find mercy from the Lord on that Day. You know very well how many ways he ministered to me at Ephesus. 
2Timothy2:1 So you, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy2:2 Share the things that you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses with faithful men who will be able to teach others also. 
2Timothy2:3 Endure hard times as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. 
2Timothy2:4 No soldier on active duty entangles himself with civilian affairs, that he may please the enlisting officer." 
2Timothy2:5 Anyone who competes as an athlete is not rewarded without competing legally. 
2Timothy2:6 The farmer who labors should be first to partake of the crops. 
2Timothy2:7 Consider what I am saying, and may the Lord grant you understanding in all things." 
2Timothy2:8 Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, descended from David, according to my gospel," 
2Timothy2:9 in which I suffer trouble like a criminal, even with chains. But the word of God is not bound." 
2Timothy2:10 Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory." 
2Timothy2:11 This is a faithful saying: If we die with Him, we shall also live with Him." 
2Timothy2:12 If we endure, we shall also reign with Him. If we deny Him, He also will deny us." 
2Timothy2:13 If we are faithless, He remains faithful; He cannot deny Himself." 
2Timothy2:14 Remind them of these things, charging them before the Lord not to argue about words, which is useless, to the ruin of those who hear." 
2Timothy2:15 Strive to show yourself approved unto God, a workman who need not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth." 
2Timothy2:16 But avoid profane foolish babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness," 
2Timothy2:17 and their word will spread like gangrene: Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus," 
2Timothy2:18 who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection has already occurred, and who overthrow the faith of some." 
2Timothy2:19 But the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, “The Lord knows those who are His,” and, “Let everyone who calls on the name of Christ depart from iniquity.”" 
2Timothy2:20 In a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also those of wood and clay; some are for honor, and some for dishonor." 
2Timothy2:21 One who cleanses himself from these things will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, fit for the Master’s use, and prepared for every good work." 
2Timothy2:22 So flee youthful desires and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart." 
2Timothy2:23 But avoid foolish and unlearned debates, knowing that they create strife." 
2Timothy2:24 The servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but must be gentle toward all people, able to teach, patient," 
2Timothy2:25 in gentleness instructing those in opposition. Perhaps God will grant them repentance to know the truth," 
2Timothy2:26 and they may escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will." 
2Timothy3:1 Know this: In the last days perilous times will come. 
2Timothy3:2 Men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy," 
2Timothy3:3 without natural affection, unforgiving, slanderers, unrestrained, fierce, despisers of those who are good," 
2Timothy3:4 traitors, reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God," 
2Timothy3:5 having a form of godliness, but denying its power. Turn away from such people." 
2Timothy3:6 Those of this nature creep into houses and captivate weak women who are burdened with sins and led away with various desires," 
2Timothy3:7 always learning, but never able to come to the knowledge of the truth." 
2Timothy3:8 Now as Jannes and Jambres resisted Moses, so these also resist the truth, men of corrupt minds and worthless concerning the faith." 
2Timothy3:9 But they shall proceed no further, for their folly will be revealed to everyone, as theirs also was." 
2Timothy3:10 But you have observed my teaching, manner of life, purpose, faith, tolerance, love, patience," 
2Timothy3:11 persecutions, and afflictions, which came to me at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra—what persecutions I endured! But the Lord delivered me out of them all." 
2Timothy3:12 Yes, and all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution." 
2Timothy3:13 But evil men and seducers will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived." 
2Timothy3:14 But continue in the things that you have learned and have been assured of, knowing those from whom you have learned them," 
2Timothy3:15 and that since childhood you have known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation through the faith that is in Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy3:16 All Scripture is inspired by God and is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness," 
2Timothy3:17 that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work." 
2Timothy4:1 I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at His appearing and His kingdom:" 
2Timothy4:2 Preach the word, be ready in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with all patience and teaching." 
2Timothy4:3 For the time will come when people will not endure sound teaching, but they will gather to themselves teachers in accordance with their own desires, having itching ears," 
2Timothy4:4 and they will turn their ears away from the truth and turn to myths. 
2Timothy4:5 But be self-controlled in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, and prove your ministry." 
2Timothy4:6 For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come." 
2Timothy4:7 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, and I have kept the faith." 
2Timothy4:8 From now on a crown of righteousness is laid up for me, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved His appearing." 
2Timothy4:9 Diligently try to come to me soon. 
2Timothy4:10 Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and has departed to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia." 
2Timothy4:10 Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and has departed to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me. Get Mark, and bring him with you, for he is profitable to me for the ministry." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me. Get Mark, and bring him with you, for he is profitable to me for the ministry." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me. Get Mark, and bring him with you, for he is profitable to me for the ministry." 
2Timothy4:12 I sent Tychicus to Ephesus. 
2Timothy4:13 When you come, bring with you the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, and the books, but especially the parchments." 
2Timothy4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. May the Lord reward him according to his works. 
2Timothy4:15 Beware of him, for he has greatly opposed our words." 
2Timothy4:16 At my first defense no one stood with me, but everyone forsook me. May it not be charged against them." 
2Timothy4:17 But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion." 
2Timothy4:18 The Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me for His heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen." 
2Timothy4:19 Greet Priscilla and Aquila and the household of Onesiphorus. 
2Timothy4:20 Erastus remained at Corinth, and I have left Trophimus ill in Miletus." 
2Timothy4:21 Diligently try to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, and so do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers." 
2Timothy4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen. 
Titus1:1 Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God’s elect and the knowledge of the truth which leads to godliness," 
Titus1:2 in hope of eternal life which God, who cannot lie, promised before the world began," 
Titus1:3 and has in due time revealed His word through preaching, with which I was entrusted according to the command of God our Savior," 
Titus1:4 To Titus, my own son in the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior." 
Titus1:5 For this reason I left you in Crete, that you should set in order the things that are lacking, and appoint elders in every city, as I commanded you:" 
Titus1:6 any man who is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children who are not accused of being wild or unruly." 
Titus1:7 For an overseer must be blameless, as a steward of God, not self-willed, not easily angered, not given to drunkenness, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain," 
Titus1:8 but hospitable, a lover of what is good, self-controlled, just, holy, temperate," 
Titus1:9 holding firmly the trustworthy word that is in accordance with the teaching, that he may be able both to exhort with sound teaching and to convince those who oppose it." 
Titus1:10 For there are many unruly men, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision," 
Titus1:11 who must be silenced, who subvert whole houses by teaching for dishonest gain things they ought not teach." 
Titus1:12 One of them, a prophet of their own, said, “The Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and idle gluttons!”" 
Titus1:13 This witness is true. So rebuke them sharply that they may be sound in the faith," 
Titus1:14 not paying attention to Jewish myths and commandments of men who reject the truth. 
Titus1:15 To the pure, all things are pure. But to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure. Even their minds and consciences are defiled." 
Titus1:16 They profess that they know God, but in their deeds they deny Him, being abominable, disobedient, and worthless for every good work." 
Titus2:1 But as for you, teach what is fitting of sound instruction:" 
Titus2:2 Older men should be sober, serious, temperate, sound in faith, in love, in patience." 
Titus2:3 Likewise, older women should be reverent in behavior, and not be false accusers, not be enslaved to much wine, but teachers of good things," 
Titus2:4 that they may teach the young women to love their husbands, to love their children," 
Titus2:5 and to be self-controlled, pure, homemakers, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be dishonored." 
Titus2:6 Likewise, exhort young men to be self-controlled," 
Titus2:7 in all things presenting yourself as an example of good works: in teaching showing integrity, gravity, incorruptibility," 
Titus2:8 and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that the one who opposes you may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you." 
Titus2:9 Exhort servants to be obedient to their own masters, to please them well in everything, not answering back," 
Titus2:10 or stealing, but showing complete fidelity, so that they may exemplify the instruction of God our Savior in all things." 
Titus2:11 For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men," 
Titus2:12 teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly desires, we should live soberly, righteously, and in godliness in this present world," 
Titus2:13 as we await the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ," 
Titus2:14 who gave Himself for us, that He might redeem us from all lawlessness and purify for Himself a special people, zealous of good works." 
Titus2:15 Teach these things, exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no one despise you." 
Titus3:1 Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey them, to be ready for every good work," 
Titus3:2 to speak evil of no one, not to be contentious, but gentle, showing all humility toward everyone." 
Titus3:3 We also were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various desires and pleasures, living in evil and envy, filled with hatred and hating each other." 
Titus3:4 But when the kindness and the love of God our Savior toward mankind appeared," 
Titus3:5 not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to His mercy He saved us, through the washing of rebirth and the renewal of the Holy Spirit," 
Titus3:6 whom He poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior," 
Titus3:7 so that, being justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life." 
Titus3:8 This is a faithful saying, and these things I want you constantly to affirm, so that those who have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to everyone." 
Titus3:9 But avoid foolish debates, genealogies, contentions, and arguments about the law, for they are unprofitable and useless." 
Titus3:10 Reject a divisive man after a first and second admonition," 
Titus3:11 knowing that such a man is perverted and is sinning, being self-condemned." 
Titus3:12 When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, be diligent to come to me in Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there." 
Titus3:13 Diligently send Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey. See that they lack nothing. 
Titus3:14 And let our people also learn to continue doing good works to meet urgent needs, that they may not be unproductive." 
Titus3:15 All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen. 
Philemon1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, To Philemon, our beloved fellow laborer," 
Philemon1:2 and to beloved Apphia, and to Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house:" 
Philemon1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Philemon1:4 I thank my God, always mentioning you in my prayers," 
Philemon1:5 whenever I hear of your love and faith, which you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints," 
Philemon1:6 that the sharing of your faith may be most effective by the acknowledgment of every good thing which is in you from Christ Jesus. 
Philemon1:7 For we have great joy and encouragement on account of your love, because the hearts of the saints are refreshed through you, brother." 
Philemon1:8 Therefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to command you to do that which is proper," 
Philemon1:9 yet for love’s sake I rather appeal to you —I, Paul, an old man, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ —" 
Philemon1:10 I appeal to you on behalf of my son Onesimus, whose father I have become in my imprisonment," 
Philemon1:11 who in the past was unprofitable to you, but now he is profitable to you and to me." 
Philemon1:12 I have sent him back. Therefore receive him as my own heart. 
Philemon1:13 I wanted to keep him with me, so that in your place he might serve me during my imprisonment for the gospel." 
Philemon1:14 But without your consent I would do nothing, so that your goodness would not be forced, but given willingly." 
Philemon1:15 Perhaps this was why he departed for a while, that you might receive him forever," 
Philemon1:16 no longer as a slave but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me but how much more to you, both in the body and in the Lord." 
Philemon1:17 If then you consider me a partner, receive him as you would me." 
Philemon1:18 If he wronged you or owes you anything, charge this to my account." 
Philemon1:19 I, Paul, have written this with my own hand. I will repay it—not to mention that you owe me even your own self." 
Philemon1:20 Yes, brother, help me rejoice in the Lord, refresh my heart in the Lord." 
Philemon1:21 Being convinced of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will also do more than I say." 
Philemon1:22 But, in addition, prepare also lodging for me, for I hope that through your prayers I shall be graciously restored to you." 
Philemon1:23 Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you," 
Philemon1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow laborers." 
Philemon1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow laborers." 
Philemon1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow laborers." 
Philemon1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
Hebrews1:1 God, who at various times and in diverse ways spoke long ago to the fathers through the prophets," 
Hebrews1:2 has in these last days spoken to us by His Son, whom He has appointed heir of all things, and through whom He made the ages." 
Hebrews1:3 He is the brightness of His glory, the express image of Himself, and upholds all things by the word of His power. When He had by Himself purged our sins, He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high." 
Hebrews1:4 He was made so much better than the angels as He has inherited a more excellent name than they. 
Hebrews1:5 For to which of the angels did He at any time say: “You are My Son; today I have become Your Father”? Or again, “I will be a Father to Him, and He shall be a Son to Me”?" 
Hebrews1:6 And again, when He brings the firstborn into the world, He says: “Let all the angels of God worship Him.”" 
Hebrews1:7 Of the angels He says: “He makes His angels spirits, and His servants a flame of fire.”" 
Hebrews1:8 But to the Son He says: “Your throne, O God, lasts forever and ever; a scepter of righteousness is the scepter of Your kingdom." 
Hebrews1:9 You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of gladness more than Your companions.”" 
Hebrews1:10 And, “You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the works of Your hands." 
Hebrews1:11 They will perish, but You remain; and they all will wear out like a garment;" 
Hebrews1:12 as a cloak You will fold them up, and they will be changed. But You are the same, and Your years will not end.”" 
Hebrews1:13 But to which of the angels did He at any time say: “Sit at My right hand, until I make Your enemies Your footstool”?" 
Hebrews1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to minister to those who will inherit salvation? 
Hebrews2:1 Therefore we should be more attentive to what we have heard, lest we drift away." 
Hebrews2:2 For if the word spoken by angels was true, and every sin and disobedience received a just recompense," 
Hebrews2:3 how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and was confirmed to us by those who heard Him," 
Hebrews2:4 God also bearing witness, with signs and wonders and various miracles, and with gifts of the Holy Spirit, distributed according to His own will." 
Hebrews2:5 For it was not to the angels that He has subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking." 
Hebrews2:6 But someone in a certain place testified, saying: “What is man that You are mindful of him, or the son of man that You care for him?" 
Hebrews2:7 You made him a little lower than the angels; You crowned him with glory and honor, and set him over the works of Your hands." 
Hebrews2:8 You have put all things in subjection under his feet.” For in subjecting all things under him, He left nothing that is not subjected to him. Yet now we do not see all things subject to him." 
Hebrews2:9 But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels to suffer death, crowned with glory and honor, so that He, by the grace of God, should experience death for everyone." 
Hebrews2:10 For it was fitting for Him, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, to make the author of their salvation complete through suffering." 
Hebrews2:11 For both He who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all of One. For this reason He is not ashamed to call them brothers," 
Hebrews2:12 saying: “I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing praise to You.” 
Hebrews2:13 And again: “I will put My trust in Him.” And again: “Behold, I and the children whom God has given Me.”" 
Hebrews2:14 So then, as the children share in flesh and blood, He likewise took part in these, so that through death He might destroy him who has the power of death, that is, the devil," 
Hebrews2:15 and deliver those who through fear of death were throughout their lives subject to bondage. 
Hebrews2:16 For surely He does not help the angels, but He helps the seed of Abraham." 
Hebrews2:17 Therefore, in all things it was necessary for Him to be made like His brothers, so that He might be a merciful and faithful High Priest in the things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people." 
Hebrews2:18 For since He Himself suffered while being tempted, He is able to help those who are being tempted." 
Hebrews3:1 Therefore, holy brothers, partakers in a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Jesus Christ," 
Hebrews3:2 who was faithful to Him who appointed Him, as Moses was faithful in all His house." 
Hebrews3:3 For the One was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, in that He who builds the house has more honor than the house itself." 
Hebrews3:4 For every house is built by someone, but the One who builds all things is God." 
Hebrews3:5 Moses was faithful in all God’s house as a servant, testifying about those things that were to be spoken later." 
Hebrews3:6 But Christ is faithful over God’s house as a Son, whose house we are if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of our hope firm to the end." 
Hebrews3:7 Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says: “Today, if you hear His voice," 
Hebrews3:8 do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of temptation in the wilderness," 
Hebrews3:9 where your fathers tested Me and tried Me and saw My works for forty years. 
Hebrews3:10 Therefore I was angry with that generation, and said, ‘They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known My ways.’" 
Hebrews3:11 So I swore in My wrath, ‘They shall not enter My rest.’ ”" 
Hebrews3:12 Be attentive, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, and you depart from the living God." 
Hebrews3:13 But exhort one another daily, while it is called “Today,” lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin." 
Hebrews3:14 For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence firmly to the end," 
Hebrews3:15 while it is said: “Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion.”" 
Hebrews3:16 For who were they who heard and rebelled? Was it not all of those who came out of Egypt, led by Moses?" 
Hebrews3:17 And with whom was He grieved for forty years? Was it not with those who had sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?" 
Hebrews3:18 And to whom did He swear that they would not enter His rest, but to those who disobeyed?" 
Hebrews3:19 So we see that they could not enter because of unbelief. 
Hebrews4:1 Therefore, since the promise of entering His rest remains, let us fear lest any of you should seem to come short of it." 
Hebrews4:2 For the gospel was preached to us as well as to them. But the word preached did not benefit them, because it was not mixed with faith in those who heard it." 
Hebrews4:3 For we who have believed have entered this rest, as He has said, “As I have sworn in My wrath, ‘They shall not enter My rest.’ ” However, His works have been finished since the creation of the world." 
Hebrews4:4 For He spoke somewhere about the seventh day like this: “And God rested on the seventh day from all His works.” 
Hebrews4:5 And again in the present passage He said, “They shall not enter My rest.”" 
Hebrews4:6 Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and they to whom it was first preached did not enter due to unbelief," 
Hebrews4:7 again He establishes a certain day, “Today,” saying through David, after so long a time, as it has been said: “Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts.”" 
Hebrews4:8 For if Joshua had given them rest, He would not have later spoken of another day." 
Hebrews4:9 Therefore a Sabbath rest remains for the people of God. 
Hebrews4:10 For whoever enters His rest will also cease from his own works, as God did from His." 
Hebrews4:11 Let us labor therefore to enter that rest, lest anyone fall by the same pattern of unbelief." 
Hebrews4:12 For the word of God is alive, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intents of the heart." 
Hebrews4:13 There is no creature that is not revealed in His sight, for all things are bare and exposed to the eyes of Him to whom we must give account." 
Hebrews4:14 Since then we have a great High Priest who has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold firmly to our confession." 
Hebrews4:15 For we do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who was in every sense tempted like we are, yet without sin." 
Hebrews4:16 Let us then come with confidence to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need." 
Hebrews5:1 For every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to represent men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins." 
Hebrews5:2 He is able to have compassion on the ignorant and on those who are wayward, for he himself is also subject to weakness." 
Hebrews5:3 Because of this he must offer sacrifices for his own sins, just as he does for the people." 
Hebrews5:4 No man takes this honor for himself, but he who is called by God receives it, just as Aaron did." 
Hebrews5:5 So also Christ did not glorify Himself to be made a High Priest, but it was He who said to Him: “You are My Son; today I have become Your Father.”" 
Hebrews5:6 As He also says in another place: “You are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek.” 
Hebrews5:7 In the days of His flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to Him who was able to save Him from death. He was heard because of His godly fear." 
Hebrews5:8 Though He was a Son, He learned obedience through the things that He suffered," 
Hebrews5:9 and being made complete, He became the source of eternal salvation for all those who obey Him," 
Hebrews5:10 being designated by God a High Priest according to the order of Melchizedek. 
Hebrews5:11 Concerning this we have much to say that is hard to explain, since you have become hard of hearing." 
Hebrews5:12 For though by now you should be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God and have come to need milk rather than solid food." 
Hebrews5:13 Everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a baby." 
Hebrews5:14 But solid food belongs to those who are mature, for those who through practice have powers of discernment that are trained to distinguish good from evil." 
Hebrews6:1 Therefore, leaving the elementary principles of the teaching of Christ, let us go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God," 
Hebrews6:2 of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment." 
Hebrews6:3 This we will do if God permits. 
Hebrews6:4 For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, who shared in the Holy Spirit," 
Hebrews6:5 and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come," 
Hebrews6:6 if they fall away, to be renewed once more to repentance, since they again crucify to themselves the Son of God and subject Him to public shame." 
Hebrews6:7 For land that drinks in the rain that often falls upon it and bears a crop useful to those for whom it is cultivated receives a blessing from God. 
Hebrews6:8 But land that bears thorns and thistles is rejected and near to being cursed. Its destiny is to be burned. 
Hebrews6:9 But though we speak in this manner, we are persuaded of better things for you, things that accompany salvation," 
Hebrews6:10 for God is not unjust so as to forget your work and labor of love that you have shown for His name, in that you have ministered to the saints and continue ministering." 
Hebrews6:11 We desire that every one of you show the same diligence for the full assurance of hope to the end," 
Hebrews6:12 so that you may not be lazy, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises." 
Hebrews6:13 For when God made a promise to Abraham, because He could vow by no one greater, He vowed by Himself," 
Hebrews6:14 saying, “Surely I will bless you, and surely I will multiply you.”" 
Hebrews6:15 So after Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise." 
Hebrews6:16 For men indeed swear by a greater authority than themselves, and for them an oath of confirmation ends all dispute." 
Hebrews6:17 So God, wanting to show more abundantly the immutability of His counsel to the heirs of promise, confirmed it by an oath." 
Hebrews6:18 So that by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us." 
Hebrews6:19 We have this hope as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, which enters the inner sanctuary behind the veil." 
Hebrews6:20 This is where Jesus has entered for us as a forerunner, since He has become the everlasting High Priest in the order of Melchizedek." 
Hebrews7:1 For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him." 
Hebrews7:2 To him Abraham also gave one-tenth of everything. In the first place, his name is translated “king of righteousness,” and then also he is king of Salem, which means “king of peace.”" 
Hebrews7:3 Without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, he continually remains a priest." 
Hebrews7:4 Now consider how great this man was, to whom even the patriarch Abraham gave one-tenth of the spoils." 
Hebrews7:5 Surely the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a command to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, from their brothers, though they also come from the seed of Abraham." 
Hebrews7:6 But this man, whose descent is not numbered among them, received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises." 
Hebrews7:7 Without question, the inferior is blessed by the superior." 
Hebrews7:8 In the one case mortal men receive tithes, but in the other he of whom it is witnessed that he is alive receives them." 
Hebrews7:9 One might say that Levi also, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham," 
Hebrews7:10 for he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met Abraham. 
Hebrews7:11 If perfection were attained through the Levitical priesthood (for through it the people received the law), what further need was there that another priest should rise in the order of Melchizedek, rather than established in the order of Aaron?" 
Hebrews7:12 For a change in the priesthood necessitates a change in the law. 
Hebrews7:13 For the One concerning whom these things are spoken pertains to another tribe, from which no man served at the altar." 
Hebrews7:14 For it is evident that our Lord descended from Judah, a tribe concerning which Moses said nothing about priests." 
Hebrews7:15 This is far more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek," 
Hebrews7:16 who becomes a priest not by a law pertaining to ancestry, but by the power of an endless life." 
Hebrews7:17 For He testifies: “You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek.”" 
Hebrews7:18 For there is then an annulling of the previous commandment due to its weakness and uselessness. 
Hebrews7:19 For the law made nothing perfect, but now a better hope is introduced, by which we draw near to God." 
Hebrews7:20 And He was not made a priest without an oath. 
Hebrews7:21 (Other priests were made without an oath, but this One with an oath by the One who said to Him: “The Lord has sworn and will not relent, ‘You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek.’ ”)" 
Hebrews7:22 Through this oath Jesus became the guarantor of a better covenant. 
Hebrews7:23 And the former priests were numerous, because they were hindered from serving, because of death." 
Hebrews7:24 But He, because He lives forever, has an everlasting priesthood." 
Hebrews7:25 Therefore He is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through Him, because He at all times lives to make intercession for them." 
Hebrews7:26 For such a High Priest was fitting for us, for He is holy, innocent, undefiled, separate from sinners, and is higher than the heavens." 
Hebrews7:27 Unlike those high priests, He does not need to offer daily sacrifices—first for His own sins and then for the people’s, for He did this once for all when He offered up Himself." 
Hebrews7:28 For the law appoints men who are weak as high priests, but the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints a Son who is made perfect forever." 
Hebrews8:1 Now this is the main point of the things that we are saying: We have such a High Priest, who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens," 
Hebrews8:2 a minister in the sanctuary and the true tabernacle, which the Lord, not man, set up." 
Hebrews8:3 For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices. Therefore it is necessary that this priest also have something to offer. 
Hebrews8:4 For if He were on earth, He would not be a priest, since there are priests that offer gifts according to the law." 
Hebrews8:5 They serve in a sanctuary that is an example and shadow of the heavenly one, as Moses was instructed by God when he was about to make the tabernacle, “See that you make all things according to the pattern shown you on the mountain.”" 
Hebrews8:6 But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry, because He is the Mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises." 
Hebrews8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no occasion would have been sought for a second." 
Hebrews8:8 For finding fault with them, God says: “Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah," 
Hebrews8:9 not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in My covenant, and I rejected them, says the Lord." 
Hebrews8:10 This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put My laws into their minds and write them on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people." 
Hebrews8:11 No longer shall every man teach his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for all shall know Me, from the least of them to the greatest." 
Hebrews8:12 For I will be merciful toward their unrighteousness, and their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more.”" 
Hebrews8:13 In speaking of a new covenant He has made the first one old. Now that which is decaying and growing old is ready to vanish away. 
Hebrews9:1 Then indeed, the first covenant had ordinances for divine services and an earthly sanctuary." 
Hebrews9:2 A tabernacle was made. In the first outer part of the tabernacle, called the Holy Place, were the lampstand, the table, and the showbread." 
Hebrews9:3 Behind the second veil was the second inner part of the tabernacle called the Most Holy Place," 
Hebrews9:4 which contained the golden censer and the ark of the covenant overlaid with gold, containing the golden pot holding the manna, Aaron’s rod that budded, and the tablets of the covenant." 
Hebrews9:5 Above the ark were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Concerning these things we cannot now speak in detail. 
Hebrews9:6 Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests would regularly go into the first part, conducting the services of God." 
Hebrews9:7 But only the high priest went into the second part once a year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the sins of the people, committed in ignorance." 
Hebrews9:8 The Holy Spirit was signifying through this that the way into the Most Holy Place was not yet revealed, because the first outer part of the tabernacle was still standing." 
Hebrews9:9 This is an illustration for the present time, showing that the gifts and sacrifices offered could not perfect the conscience of those who worshipped," 
Hebrews9:10 since they are concerned only with foods and drinks, ceremonial cleansings, and fleshly ordinances imposed until the time of reformation." 
Hebrews9:11 But Christ, when He came as a High Priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation," 
Hebrews9:12 neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by His own blood, He entered the Most Holy Place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption." 
Hebrews9:13 For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies so that the flesh is purified," 
Hebrews9:14 how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?" 
Hebrews9:15 For this reason He is the Mediator of a new covenant, since a death has occurred for the redemption of the sins that were committed under the first covenant, so that those who are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance." 
Hebrews9:16 For where there is a will, there must also of necessity be the death of the one who grants it." 
Hebrews9:17 For a will has force after men are dead, since it has no force at all while the one who made it lives." 
Hebrews9:18 So not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. 
Hebrews9:19 For when Moses had taught every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people," 
Hebrews9:20 saying, “This is the blood of the covenant that God has commanded you to keep.”" 
Hebrews9:21 Likewise he sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the vessels of worship with blood. 
Hebrews9:22 And according to the law almost everything must be cleansed with blood; without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness. 
Hebrews9:23 It was therefore necessary that the replicas of heavenly things be cleansed with these sacrifices, but that the heavenly things themselves be cleansed with better sacrifices than these." 
Hebrews9:24 For Christ did not enter holy places made with hands, which are patterned after the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us." 
Hebrews9:25 Nor did He enter to offer Himself often, as the high priest enters the Most Holy Place every year with blood that is not his own." 
Hebrews9:26 For then He would have had to suffer repeatedly since the world was created, but now He has appeared once at the end of the ages to put away sin by sacrificing Himself." 
Hebrews9:27 As it is appointed for men to die once, but after this comes the judgment," 
Hebrews9:28 so Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many, and He will appear a second time, not to bear sin but to save those who eagerly wait for Him." 
Hebrews10:1 For the law is a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very image of those things. It could never by the same sacrifices, which they offer continually year after year, perfect those who draw near." 
Hebrews10:2 Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, once purified, would no longer be conscious of sins?" 
Hebrews10:3 But in those sacrifices there is an annual reminder of sins. 
Hebrews10:4 For it is not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. 
Hebrews10:5 Therefore, when He came into the world, He said: “Sacrifices and offerings You did not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me." 
Hebrews10:6 In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You have had no pleasure. 
Hebrews10:7 Then I said, ‘Behold, I have come to do Your will, O God,’ as it is written of Me in the volume of the book.”" 
Hebrews10:8 Previously when He said, “You did not desire sacrifices and offerings. You have had no pleasure in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin,” which are offered in accordance with the law," 
Hebrews10:9 then He said, “Behold, I have come to do Your will, O God.” He takes away the first that He may establish the second." 
Hebrews10:10 By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 
Hebrews10:11 But every priest stands daily ministering and repetitively offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins." 
Hebrews10:12 But this Man, after He had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God." 
Hebrews10:13 Since that time He has been waiting for His enemies to be made His footstool. 
Hebrews10:14 For by one offering He has forever perfected those who are sanctified. 
Hebrews10:15 The Holy Spirit also witnesses to us about this. For after saying," 
Hebrews10:16 “This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord: I will put My laws into their hearts, and in their minds I will write them,”" 
Hebrews10:17 then He adds, “Their sins and lawless deeds will I remember no more.”" 
Hebrews10:18 Now where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer an offering for sin." 
Hebrews10:19 Therefore, brothers, we have confidence to enter the Most Holy Place by the blood of Jesus," 
Hebrews10:20 by a new and living way that He has opened for us through the veil, that is to say, His flesh," 
Hebrews10:21 and since we have a High Priest over the house of God," 
Hebrews10:22 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse them from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water." 
Hebrews10:23 Let us firmly hold the confession of our hope without wavering, for He who promised is faithful." 
Hebrews10:24 And let us consider how to spur one another to love and to good works. 
Hebrews10:25 Let us not forsake the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but let us exhort one another, especially as you see the Day approaching." 
Hebrews10:26 For if we willfully continue to sin after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins," 
Hebrews10:27 but a fearful expectation of judgment and fiery indignation, which will devour the adversaries." 
Hebrews10:28 Anyone who despised Moses’ law died without mercy in the presence of two or three witnesses. 
Hebrews10:29 How much more severe a punishment do you suppose he deserves, who has trampled underfoot the Son of God, and has regarded the blood of the covenant that sanctified him to be a common thing, and has insulted the Spirit of grace?" 
Hebrews10:30 For we know Him who said, “Vengeance is Mine,” says the Lord, “I will repay.” And again He says, “The Lord will judge His people.”" 
Hebrews10:31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. 
Hebrews10:32 Remember the former days, after you were enlightened, in which you endured a great struggle of afflictions." 
Hebrews10:33 In part you were made a spectacle both by reproaches and afflictions. And in part you became companions of those who were so abused. 
Hebrews10:34 For you had compassion on me in my chains and joyfully endured the confiscation of your property, knowing that you have in heaven a better and an enduring possession for yourselves." 
Hebrews10:35 Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which will be greatly rewarded." 
Hebrews10:36 For you need patience, so that after you have done the will of God, you will receive the promise." 
Hebrews10:37 For, “In yet a little while, He who is to come will come, and will not wait." 
Hebrews10:38 Now the just shall live by faith; but if anyone draws back, My soul shall have no pleasure in him.”" 
Hebrews10:39 But we are not of those who draw back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the saving of the soul." 
Hebrews11:1 Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." 
Hebrews11:2 For by it the men of old obtained a good report. 
Hebrews11:3 By faith we understand that the ages were set by the word of God, so that things that are seen were not made out of things which are visible." 
Hebrews11:4 By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain offered. Through this he was approved as righteous, with God testifying concerning his gifts. He still speaks through his faith, though he is dead." 
Hebrews11:5 By faith Enoch was taken to heaven so that he would not see death. He was not found, because God took him away. For before he was taken, he had this commendation, that he pleased God." 
Hebrews11:6 And without faith it is impossible to please God, for he who comes to God must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who diligently seek Him." 
Hebrews11:7 By faith Noah, being divinely warned about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark to save his family, by which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith." 
Hebrews11:8 By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out into a place which he would later receive as an inheritance. He went out not knowing where he was going. 
Hebrews11:9 By faith he dwelt in the promised land, as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of the same promise," 
Hebrews11:10 for he was looking for a city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God." 
Hebrews11:11 By faith Sarah herself also received the ability to conceive seed, and she bore a child when she was past the age, because she judged Him faithful who had promised." 
Hebrews11:12 Therefore from one man, who was as good as dead, sprang so many, a multitude as the stars of the sky and innumerable as the sand by the seashore." 
Hebrews11:13 These all died in faith not having received the promises, but having seen them from afar were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth." 
Hebrews11:14 Those who say such things declare plainly that they are looking for a homeland. 
Hebrews11:15 And certainly, if they had been thinking of the country out of which they came, they might have had the opportunity to return." 
Hebrews11:16 But they desired a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them." 
Hebrews11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises offered up his only son." 
Hebrews11:18 Of him God said, “Through Isaac shall your seed be named.”" 
Hebrews11:19 He reasoned that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead, from which he indeed received him in a figurative sense." 
Hebrews11:20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. 
Hebrews11:21 By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped while leaning on the top of his staff." 
Hebrews11:22 By faith Joseph, when he was dying, mentioned the exodus of the Israelites and gave instructions concerning his bones." 
Hebrews11:23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden by his parents for three months, because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king’s command." 
Hebrews11:24 By faith Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter," 
Hebrews11:25 choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time. 
Hebrews11:26 He esteemed the reproach of Christ as greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he looked to the reward." 
Hebrews11:27 By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. He endured by looking to Him who is invisible." 
Hebrews11:28 By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest the one who destroys the firstborn touch them." 
Hebrews11:29 By faith they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land, which the Egyptians attempted to do, but were drowned." 
Hebrews11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were encircled for seven days. 
Hebrews11:31 By faith the prostitute Rahab, when she received the spies with peace, did not perish with those who did not believe." 
Hebrews11:32 And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets," 
Hebrews11:33 who through faith subdued kingdoms, administered justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions," 
Hebrews11:34 quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in fighting, and turned the armies of foreign enemies to flight." 
Hebrews11:35 Women received their dead raised to life again. Others were tortured and did not accept deliverance, so that they might obtain a better resurrection." 
Hebrews11:36 Still others had trials of mocking and scourging, and even chains and imprisonment." 
Hebrews11:37 They were stoned, they were sawn in two, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered around in sheepskins and goatskins, while destitute, afflicted, and tormented." 
Hebrews11:38 The world was not worthy of them. They wandered in deserts and mountains, in dens and caves of the earth." 
Hebrews11:39 These all have obtained a good report through faith, but they did not receive the promise." 
Hebrews11:40 For God provided something better for us, so that with us they would be made complete." 
Hebrews12:1 Therefore, since we are encompassed with such a great cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and the sin that so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us." 
Hebrews12:2 Let us look to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God." 
Hebrews12:3 For consider Him who endured such hostility from sinners against Himself, lest you become weary and your hearts give up." 
Hebrews12:4 You have not yet resisted to bloodshed while striving against sin. 
Hebrews12:5 And you have forgotten the exhortation addressed to you as sons: “My son, do not despise the discipline from the Lord, nor grow weary when you are rebuked by Him;" 
Hebrews12:6 for whom the Lord loves He disciplines, and scourges every son whom He receives.”" 
Hebrews12:7 Endure discipline; God is dealing with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not discipline? 
Hebrews12:8 If you are without discipline, of which everyone has partaken, then you are illegitimate children and not sons." 
Hebrews12:9 Furthermore, we have had human fathers, and they corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live?" 
Hebrews12:10 For they indeed disciplined us for a short time according to their own judgment, but He does so for our profit, that we may partake of His holiness." 
Hebrews12:11 Now no discipline seems to be joyful at the time, but grievous. Yet afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness in those who have been trained by it." 
Hebrews12:12 Therefore lift up your tired hands, and strengthen your weak knees." 
Hebrews12:13 Make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame go out of joint, but rather be healed." 
Hebrews12:14 Pursue peace with all men, and the holiness without which no one will see the Lord," 
Hebrews12:15 watching diligently so that no one falls short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up to cause trouble, and many become defiled by it," 
Hebrews12:16 lest there be any sexually immoral or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright." 
Hebrews12:17 For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place for repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears." 
Hebrews12:18 You have not come to a mountain that can be touched and that burned with fire, and to blackness and darkness and storm," 
Hebrews12:19 and to the sound of a trumpet and to a voice speaking words, such that those who heard them begged that the word not be spoken to them anymore." 
Hebrews12:20 For they could not endure that which was commanded: “If so much as a beast touches the mountain, it must be stoned or thrust through with a spear.”" 
Hebrews12:21 So terrible was the sight that Moses said, “I am terrified and trembling.”" 
Hebrews12:22 But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels;" 
Hebrews12:23 to the general assembly and church of the firstborn, who are enrolled in heaven; to God, the Judge of all; and to the spirits of the righteous ones made complete;" 
Hebrews12:24 and to Jesus, the Mediator of a new covenant; and to the sprinkled blood that speaks better than that of Abel." 
Hebrews12:25 See that you do not refuse Him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused Him who spoke on earth, much less shall we escape if we turn away from Him who speaks from heaven." 
Hebrews12:26 At that time His voice shook the earth, but now He has given us a promise, saying, “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven.”" 
Hebrews12:27 And this statement, “Yet once more,” signifies the removal of those things that can be shaken, things that are created, so that only those things that cannot be shaken will remain." 
Hebrews12:28 Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be moved, let us be gracious, by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear." 
Hebrews12:29 For our God is a consuming fire. 
Hebrews13:1 Let brotherly love continue. 
Hebrews13:2 Do not forget to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unknowingly." 
Hebrews13:3 Remember those who are in chains, as if imprisoned with them, and those who are ill treated, since you are also in the body." 
Hebrews13:4 Marriage is to be honored among everyone, and the bed undefiled. But God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterers." 
Hebrews13:5 Let your lives be without love of money, and be content with the things you have. For He has said: “I will never leave you, nor forsake you.”" 
Hebrews13:6 So we may boldly say: “The Lord is my helper; I will not fear. What can man do to me?” 
Hebrews13:7 Remember those who rule over you, who have proclaimed to you the word of God. Follow their faith, considering the results it has produced in their lives." 
Hebrews13:8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, and today, and forever." 
Hebrews13:9 Do not be carried away with diverse and strange teachings. It is a good thing that the heart be strengthened with grace, not with foods, which have not profited those who have been occupied with them." 
Hebrews13:10 We have an altar from which those who serve in the tabernacle have no right to eat. 
Hebrews13:11 For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest on account of sin, are burned outside the camp." 
Hebrews13:12 Therefore Jesus also, so that He might sanctify the people with His own blood, suffered outside the gate." 
Hebrews13:13 Therefore let us go forth to Him outside the camp, bearing the reproach that He bore." 
Hebrews13:14 For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come." 
Hebrews13:15 Through Him, then, let us continually offer to God the sacrifice of praise, which is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to His name." 
Hebrews13:16 But do not forget to do good and to share. For with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 
Hebrews13:17 Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they watch over your souls as those who must give an account. Let them do this with joy and not complaining, for that would not be profitable to you." 
Hebrews13:18 Pray for us. For we trust that we have a good conscience and in all things are willing to live honestly. 
Hebrews13:19 But I implore you to pray, that I may be restored to you very soon." 
Hebrews13:20 Now may the God of peace, who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the Great Shepherd of the sheep," 
Hebrews13:21 make you complete in every good work to do His will, working in you that which is pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen." 
Hebrews13:22 I implore you, brothers, to heed this word of exhortation, for I have written to you in few words." 
Hebrews13:23 Know that our brother Timothy has been set free, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon." 
Hebrews13:24 Greet all those who rule over you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. 
Hebrews13:25 Grace be with you all. Amen. 
James1:1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad: Greetings." 
James1:2 My brothers, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations," 
James1:3 knowing that the trying of your faith develops patience. 
James1:4 But let patience complete its work, that you may be mature and complete, lacking nothing." 
James1:5 If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all men liberally and without criticism, and it will be given to him." 
James1:6 But let him ask in faith, without wavering. For he who wavers is like a wave of the sea, driven and tossed with the wind." 
James1:7 Let not that man think that he will receive anything from the Lord. 
James1:8 A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. 
James1:9 Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted," 
James1:10 but the rich in that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass he will pass away." 
James1:11 For the sun rises with a burning heat and it withers the grass, and its flowers fall, and its beauty perishes. So will the rich man wither away in his ways." 
James1:12 Blessed is the man who endures temptation, for when he is tried, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to those who love Him." 
James1:13 Let no man say when he is tempted, “I am tempted by God,” for God cannot be tempted with evil; neither does He tempt anyone." 
James1:14 But each man is tempted when he is drawn away by his own lust and enticed. 
James1:15 Then, when lust has conceived, it brings forth sin; and when sin is finished, it brings forth death." 
James1:16 Do not be led astray, my beloved brothers." 
James1:17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom is no change or shadow of turning." 
James1:18 Of His own will He brought us forth with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of His creatures." 
James1:19 Therefore, my beloved brothers, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger," 
James1:20 for the anger of man does not work the righteousness of God. 
James1:21 Therefore lay aside all filthiness and remaining wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls." 
James1:22 Be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves." 
James1:23 For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man viewing his natural face in a mirror." 
James1:24 He views himself, and goes his way, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was." 
James1:25 But whoever looks into the perfect law of liberty, and continues in it, and is not a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in his deeds." 
James1:26 If anyone among you seems to be religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this man’s religion is vain." 
James1:27 Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unstained by the world." 
James2:1 My brothers, have faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, without partiality." 
James2:2 For if a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, comes into your assembly, and also a poor man in ragged clothing comes in," 
James2:3 and you have respect for him who wears the fine clothing and say to him, “Sit here in a good place,” and say to the poor, “Stand there,” or “Sit here under my footstool,”" 
James2:4 have you not then become partial among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? 
James2:5 Listen, my beloved brothers. Has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He has promised to those who love Him?" 
James2:6 But you have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and drag you before the judgment seats? 
James2:7 Do they not blaspheme that worthy name by which you are called? 
James2:8 If you fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” you are doing well." 
James2:9 But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as sinners." 
James2:10 For whoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point is guilty of breaking the whole law. 
James2:11 For He who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not murder.” Now if you do not commit adultery, yet you murder, you have become a lawbreaker." 
James2:12 So speak and so do as those who will be judged by the law of liberty. 
James2:13 For he who has shown no mercy will have judgment without mercy, for mercy triumphs over judgment." 
James2:14 What does it profit, my brothers, if a man says he has faith but has no works? Can faith save him?" 
James2:15 If a brother or sister is naked and lacking daily food," 
James2:16 and one of you says to them, “Depart in peace, be warmed and filled,” and yet you give them nothing that the body needs, what does it profit?" 
James2:17 So faith by itself, if it has no works, is dead." 
James2:18 But a man may say, “You have faith and I have works.” Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works." 
James2:19 You believe that there is one God; you do well. The demons also believe and tremble. 
James2:20 But do you want to be shown, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead?" 
James2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? 
James2:22 Do you see how faith worked with his works, and by works faith was made complete?" 
James2:23 The Scripture was fulfilled which says, “Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness,” and he was called the friend of God." 
James2:24 You see then how by works a man is justified, and not by faith only." 
James2:25 Likewise, was not Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way?" 
James2:26 As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead." 
James3:1 My brothers, not many of you should become teachers, knowing that we shall receive the greater judgment." 
James3:2 We all stumble in many ways. But if any man does not stumble in what he says, he is a complete man and able also to control the whole body." 
James3:3 See how we put bits in the mouths of horses that they may obey us, and we control their whole bodies." 
James3:4 And observe ships. Though they are so great and are driven by fierce winds, yet they are directed with a very small rudder wherever the captain pleases." 
James3:5 Even so, the tongue is a little part of the body and boasts great things. See how great a forest a little fire kindles." 
James3:6 The tongue is a fire, a world of evil. The tongue is among the parts of the body, defiling the whole body, and setting the course of nature on fire, and it is set on fire by hell." 
James3:7 All kinds of beasts, and birds, and serpents, and things in the sea are tamed or have been tamed by mankind." 
James3:8 But no man can tame the tongue. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison." 
James3:9 With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who are made in the image of God." 
James3:10 Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so." 
James3:11 Does a spring yield at the same opening sweet and bitter water? 
James3:12 Can the fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a vine, figs? So no spring can yield both salt water and fresh water." 
James3:13 Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show his works by his good life in the meekness of wisdom. 
James3:14 But if you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, do not boast and do not lie against the truth." 
James3:15 This wisdom descends not from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, and devilish." 
James3:16 For where there is envying and strife, there is confusion and every evil work." 
James3:17 But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy." 
James3:18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. 
James4:1 Where do wars and fights among you come from? Do they not come from your lusts that war in your body? 
James4:2 You lust and do not have, so you kill. You desire to have and cannot obtain. You fight and war. Yet you do not have, because you do not ask." 
James4:3 You ask, and do not receive, because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your passions." 
James4:4 You adulterers and adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God." 
James4:5 Do you think that the Scripture says in vain, “He yearns jealously for the spirit that lives in us”?" 
James4:6 But He gives more grace. For this reason it says: “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”" 
James4:7 Therefore submit yourselves to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you." 
James4:8 Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded." 
James4:9 Grieve and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to dejection." 
James4:10 Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up." 
James4:11 Do not speak evil of one another, brothers. He who speaks evil of his brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges the law. If you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge." 
James4:12 There is one Lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you to judge another? 
James4:13 Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go into this city, spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit,”" 
James4:14 whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. What is your life? It is just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. 
James4:15 Instead you ought to say, “If the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that.”" 
James4:16 But now you are rejoicing in your boastings. All such rejoicing is evil. 
James4:17 Therefore, to him who knows to do good and does not do it, it is sin." 
James5:1 Come now, you rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you." 
James5:2 Your riches are corrupted and your garments are moth-eaten. 
James5:3 Your gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have stored up treasures for the last days." 
James5:4 Behold, the wages that you kept back by fraud from the laborers who harvested your fields are crying, and the cries of those who harvested have entered into the ears of the Lord of Hosts." 
James5:5 You have lived in pleasure on the earth and have been wayward. You have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter. 
James5:6 You have condemned and killed the righteous man who does not resist you. 
James5:7 Therefore be patient, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Notice how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth and is patient with it until he receives the early and late rain." 
James5:8 You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is drawing near." 
James5:9 Do not grumble against one another, brothers, lest you be condemned. Behold, the Judge is standing at the door." 
James5:10 My brothers, take the prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord, as an example of suffering and patience." 
James5:11 Behold, we consider them blessed who endure. You have heard of the patience of Job and have seen the purpose of the Lord, that the Lord is very gracious and merciful." 
James5:12 But above all things, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by the earth or by any other oath. But let your “Yes” be “Yes” and your “No” be “No,” that you do not fall into condemnation." 
James5:13 Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone merry? Let him sing psalms. 
James5:14 Is anyone sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord." 
James5:15 And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed any sins, he will be forgiven." 
James5:16 Confess your faults to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man accomplishes much." 
James5:17 Elijah was a man subject to natural passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months." 
James5:18 And he prayed again, and the sky gave rain, and the earth brought forth its fruit." 
James5:19 Brothers, if any one of you strays from the truth and someone corrects him," 
James5:20 let him know that he who converts the sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. 
1Peter1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To the refugees scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia," 
1Peter1:2 elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification by the Spirit, for obedience and sprinkling with the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied." 
1Peter1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His abundant mercy has given us a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead," 
1Peter1:4 to an incorruptible and undefiled inheritance that does not fade away, kept in heaven for you," 
1Peter1:5 who are protected by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 
1Peter1:6 In this you greatly rejoice, even though now, if for a little while, you have had to suffer various trials," 
1Peter1:7 in order that the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tried by fire, may be found to result in praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ," 
1Peter1:8 whom, having not seen, you love; and in whom, though you do not see Him now, you believe and you rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory," 
1Peter1:9 receiving as the result of your faith the salvation of your souls. 
1Peter1:10 Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied of the grace that should come to you have inquired and searched diligently," 
1Peter1:11 seeking the events and time the Spirit of Christ, who was within them, signified when He foretold the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow." 
1Peter1:12 It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but us, concerning the things which are now announced to you, by those who have preached the gospel to you, through the Holy Spirit sent from heaven —things into which angels desire to look." 
1Peter1:13 Therefore, prepare your minds for action; be sober, and set your hope fully upon the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ." 
1Peter1:14 As obedient children do not conduct yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance. 
1Peter1:15 But as He who has called you is holy, so be holy in all your conduct," 
1Peter1:16 because it is written, “Be holy, for I am holy.”" 
1Peter1:17 And if you address as Father the One who impartially judges according to each one’s work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your sojourning." 
1Peter1:18 For you know that you were not redeemed from your vain way of life inherited from your fathers with perishable things, like silver or gold," 
1Peter1:19 but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot." 
1Peter1:20 He was foreordained before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for you." 
1Peter1:21 Through Him you believe in God who raised Him up from the dead and gave Him glory, so that your faith and hope might be in God." 
1Peter1:22 Since your souls have been purified by obedience to the truth through the Spirit unto a genuine brotherly love, love one another deeply with a pure heart," 
1Peter1:23 for you have been born again, not from perishable seed, but imperishable, through the word of God which lives and abides forever." 
1Peter1:24 For “All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withers, and its flower falls away," 
1Peter1:25 but the word of the Lord endures forever.” This is the word that was preached to you. 
1Peter2:1 Therefore put away all wickedness, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all evil speaking." 
1Peter2:2 As newborn babies, desire the pure milk of the word, that by it you may grow," 
1Peter2:3 if it is true that you have experienced that the Lord is good. 
1Peter2:4 Coming to Him as to a living stone who is rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious," 
1Peter2:5 you also, as living stones, are being built up into a spiritual house as a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God through Jesus Christ." 
1Peter2:6 For also it is contained in the Scripture, “Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he who believes in Him shall never be put to shame.”" 
1Peter2:7 Therefore, to you who believe, He is precious. But to those who are disobedient, “The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone,”" 
1Peter2:8 and, “A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense.” They stumble, because they are disobedient to the word, to which also they were appointed." 
1Peter2:9 But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God’s own possession, so that you may declare the goodness of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light." 
1Peter2:10 In times past, you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy." 
1Peter2:11 Dearly beloved, I implore you as aliens and refugees, abstain from fleshly lusts, which wage war against the soul." 
1Peter2:12 Live your lives honorably among the Gentiles, so that though they speak against you as evildoers, they shall see your good works and thereby glorify God in the day of visitation." 
1Peter2:13 Submit yourselves to every human authority for the Lord’s sake, whether it be to the king, as supreme," 
1Peter2:14 or to governors, as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and to praise those who do right." 
1Peter2:15 For it is the will of God that by doing right you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. 
1Peter2:16 As free people, do not use your liberty as a covering for evil, but live as servants of God." 
1Peter2:17 Honor all people. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king. 
1Peter2:18 Servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the harsh." 
1Peter2:19 For this is commendable, if because of conscience toward God a person endures grief, suffering unjustly." 
1Peter2:20 For what credit is it if when you are being beaten for your sins you patiently endure? But if when doing good and suffering for it, you patiently endure, this is favorable before God." 
1Peter2:21 For to this you were called, because Christ suffered for us, leaving us an example, that you should follow His steps:" 
1Peter2:22 “He committed no sin, nor was deceit found in His mouth.”" 
1Peter2:23 When He was reviled, He did not revile back; when He suffered, He did not threaten, but He entrusted Himself to Him who judges righteously." 
1Peter2:24 He Himself bore our sins in His own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness. “By His wounds you were healed.”" 
1Peter2:25 For you were as sheep going astray, but now have been returned to the Shepherd and Guardian of your souls." 
1Peter3:1 Likewise you wives, be submissive to your own husbands, so that if any do not obey the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives," 
1Peter3:2 as they see the purity and reverence of your lives. 
1Peter3:3 Do not let your adorning be the outward adorning of braiding the hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine clothing." 
1Peter3:4 But let it be the hidden nature of the heart, that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God." 
1Peter3:5 For in this manner, in the old times, the holy women, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being submissive to their own husbands," 
1Peter3:6 even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. You are her children as long as you do right and are not afraid with any terror." 
1Peter3:7 Likewise, you husbands, live considerately with your wives, giving honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they too are also heirs of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered." 
1Peter3:8 Finally, be all of one mind, compassionate, loving toward one another, gracious, and kind." 
1Peter3:9 Do not repay evil for evil, or curse for curse, but on the contrary, bless, knowing that to this you are called, so that you may receive a blessing." 
1Peter3:10 For “He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit." 
1Peter3:11 Let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it. 
1Peter3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears are open to their prayers; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”" 
1Peter3:13 Who is he who will harm you if you follow that which is good? 
1Peter3:14 But even if you suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. “Do not be afraid of their terror, do not be troubled.”" 
1Peter3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Always be ready to give an answer to every man who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, with gentleness and fear." 
1Peter3:16 Have a good conscience so that evildoers who speak evil of you and falsely accuse your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed. 
1Peter3:17 For it is better, if it is the will of God, that you suffer for doing good than for doing evil." 
1Peter3:18 For Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, so that He might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive by the Spirit," 
1Peter3:19 by whom He also went and preached to the spirits in prison," 
1Peter3:20 who in times past were disobedient, when God waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water." 
1Peter3:21 Figuratively this is like baptism, which also saves us now. It is not washing off the dirt from the body, but a response to God from a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ," 
1Peter3:22 who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels and authorities and powers being made subject to Him." 
1Peter4:1 Therefore, since Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind, for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin," 
1Peter4:2 so that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh serving human desires, but the will of God." 
1Peter4:3 For in earlier times of our lives it may have sufficed us to do what the Gentiles like to do, when we walked in immorality: lusts, drunkenness, carousing, debauchery, and abominable idolatries." 
1Peter4:4 They are surprised that you do not join them in the same excess of wild living, and so they speak evil of you." 
1Peter4:5 They will give account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. 
1Peter4:6 For this reason the gospel was preached also to those who are dead, so that even though they might be judged according to men in the flesh, they might live according to God in the spirit." 
1Peter4:7 The end of all things is near. Therefore be solemn and sober so you can pray. 
1Peter4:8 Above all things, have unfailing love for one another, for love will cover a multitude of sins." 
1Peter4:9 Show hospitality to one another without complaining. 
1Peter4:10 As everyone has received a gift, even so serve one another with it, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God." 
1Peter4:11 If anyone speaks, let him speak as the oracles of God. If anyone serves, let him serve with the strength that God supplies, so that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen." 
1Peter4:12 Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal that is taking place among you to test you, as though some strange thing happened to you." 
1Peter4:13 But rejoice insofar as you share in Christ’s sufferings, so that you may rejoice and be glad also in the revelation of His glory." 
1Peter4:14 If you are reproached because of the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. On their part He is blasphemed, but on your part He is glorified." 
1Peter4:15 Let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or even as a busybody." 
1Peter4:16 Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God because of it." 
1Peter4:17 For the time has come for judgment to begin at the house of God, and if it begins first with us, what shall the end be for those who do not obey the gospel of God?" 
1Peter4:18 And “If the righteous one is scarcely saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?”" 
1Peter4:19 So then, let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls to a faithful Creator, while continuing to do good." 
1Peter5:1 I exhort the elders who are among you, as one who is also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ as well as a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed:" 
1Peter5:2 Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, take care of them, not by constraint, but willingly, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly." 
1Peter5:3 Do not lord over those in your charge, but be examples to the flock." 
1Peter5:4 And when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive a crown of glory that will not fade away." 
1Peter5:5 Likewise you younger ones, submit yourselves to the elders. Yes, all of you be submissive one to another and clothe yourselves with humility, because “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”" 
1Peter5:6 Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time." 
1Peter5:7 Cast all your care upon Him, because He cares for you." 
1Peter5:8 Be sober and watchful, because your adversary the devil walks around as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour." 
1Peter5:9 Resist him firmly in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world." 
1Peter5:10 But after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called us to His eternal glory through Christ Jesus, will restore, support, strengthen, and establish you." 
1Peter5:11 To Him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. 
1Peter5:12 With the help of Silas, whom I consider to be a faithful brother to you, I have written briefly, exhorting you and testifying that this is the true grace of God in which you stand." 
1Peter5:13 The church that is at Babylon, elect together with you, greets you, and so does Mark, my son." 
1Peter5:13 The church that is at Babylon, elect together with you, greets you, and so does Mark, my son." 
1Peter5:14 Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace be with all you who are in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
2Peter1:1 Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have received a faith as precious as ours through the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ." 
2Peter1:2 Grace and peace be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. 
2Peter1:3 His divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of Him who has called us by His own glory and excellence," 
2Peter1:4 by which He has given to us exceedingly great and precious promises, so that through these things you might become partakers of the divine nature and escape the corruption that is in the world through lust." 
2Peter1:5 For this reason make every effort to add virtue to your faith; and to your virtue, knowledge;" 
2Peter1:6 and to your knowledge, self-control; and to your self-control, patient endurance; and to your patient endurance, godliness;" 
2Peter1:7 and to your godliness, brotherly kindness; and to your brotherly kindness, love." 
2Peter1:8 For if these things reside in you and abound, they ensure that you will neither be useless nor unproductive in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Peter1:9 For he who lacks these things is blind and nearsighted, and has forgotten that he was cleansed from his past sins." 
2Peter1:10 Therefore, brothers, diligently make your calling and election sure. For if you do these things, you will never stumble." 
2Peter1:11 For in this way the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be abundantly provided for you. 
2Peter1:12 Therefore I will not be negligent to always remind you of these things, though you know them and are established in the truth that is present with you." 
2Peter1:13 I consider it right, as long as I live in this body, to stir you up by reminding you," 
2Peter1:14 knowing that soon I will take off this body, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me." 
2Peter1:15 And I will also be diligent to make sure that after my death you will always remember these things. 
2Peter1:16 For we have not followed cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of His majesty." 
2Peter1:17 For He received honor and glory from God the Father when a voice came to Him from the majestic glory, saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”" 
2Peter1:18 And we ourselves heard this voice, which came from heaven, when we were with Him on the holy mountain." 
2Peter1:19 And we have a more reliable word of prophecy, which you would do well to follow, as to a light that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts." 
2Peter1:20 But know this first of all, that no prophecy of the Scripture is a matter of one’s own interpretation." 
2Peter1:21 For no prophecy ever came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit." 
2Peter2:1 But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves." 
2Peter2:2 And many will follow their destructive ways, because of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed." 
2Peter2:3 And in their greed they will exploit you with deceptive words. Their judgment, made long ago, does not linger, and their destruction does not slumber." 
2Peter2:4 For if God did not spare the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be kept for judgment;" 
2Peter2:5 and if He did not spare the ancient world, but saved Noah, a preacher of righteousness, with seven others, when He brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;" 
2Peter2:6 and if He condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction by reducing them to ashes, making them an example to those afterward who would live ungodly lives;" 
2Peter2:7 and if He delivered righteous Lot, who was distressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked" 
2Peter2:8 (for that righteous man lived among them, and what he saw and heard of their lawless deeds tormented his righteous soul day after day);" 
2Peter2:9 then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the Day of Judgment," 
2Peter2:10 especially those who walk after the flesh in pursuit of unclean desires, and despise authority. They are presumptuous and arrogant, and are not afraid to slander the angelic beings." 
2Peter2:11 Whereas angels, who are greater in power and might, do not bring slanderous accusations against them before the Lord." 
2Peter2:12 But these people are like irrational animals, born to be captured and destroyed. They speak evil of the things that they do not understand, and in their corruption they will be destroyed." 
2Peter2:13 They shall receive the wages of unrighteousness. They count it a pleasure to carouse in the daytime. They are blots and blemishes who revel in their own deception while they carouse together with you. 
2Peter2:14 They have eyes full of adultery that cannot cease from sin. They entice unstable souls. Their hearts are trained in greed. They are cursed children! 
2Peter2:15 They have forsaken the right way and have gone astray. They follow the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wages of wickedness," 
2Peter2:16 but who was rebuked for his iniquity. The mute donkey speaking with a man’s voice constrained the madness of the prophet. 
2Peter2:17 These men are wells without water and clouds that are carried by a storm, for whom the gloom of darkness has been reserved forever." 
2Peter2:18 For when they speak arrogant words of vanity, they entice by the lusts of the flesh and by depravity those who barely escaped from those who live in error." 
2Peter2:19 Although they promise them freedom, they themselves are slaves of corruption, for by that which a man is overcome, to this he is enslaved." 
2Peter2:20 For if after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and they are again entangled in them and are overcome, the latter end is worse for them than the beginning." 
2Peter2:21 For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than to have known it and then turn back from the holy commandment that was delivered to them. 
2Peter2:22 But it has happened to them according to the true proverb, “The dog returns to his own vomit,” and “the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mud.”" 
2Peter3:1 This is now, beloved, the second epistle I am writing to you, in which I am stirring up your sincere minds by way of reminder," 
2Peter3:2 that you should remember the words that were spoken previously by the holy prophets and the commandment of our Lord and Savior spoken through us, the apostles." 
2Peter3:3 Know this first, that there shall come scoffers in the last days who walk after their own lusts," 
2Peter3:4 and say, “Where is the promise of His coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were since the beginning of the creation.”" 
2Peter3:5 For they willingly ignore that, by the word of God the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed standing out of the water and in the water," 
2Peter3:6 by which the world that then existed was flooded with water and perished. 
2Peter3:7 But by the same word, the heavens and the earth that now exist are being reserved for fire, kept for the Day of Judgment and destruction of the ungodly." 
2Peter3:8 But, beloved, do not be ignorant of this one thing, that with the Lord one day is as one thousand years, and one thousand years as one day." 
2Peter3:9 The Lord is not slow concerning His promise, as some count slowness. But He is patient with us, because He does not want any to perish, but all to come to repentance." 
2Peter3:10 But the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a loud noise, and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat. The earth also and the works that are in it will be burned up." 
2Peter3:11 Seeing then that all these things are to be destroyed, what sort of people ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness," 
2Peter3:12 while you are waiting for and desiring the coming of the day of God, in which the heavens will be destroyed by fire and the elements will be consumed by intense heat?" 
2Peter3:13 But, according to His promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells." 
2Peter3:14 Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these things, be diligent that you may be found by Him in peace, spotless and blameless." 
2Peter3:15 Keep in mind that the patience of our Lord means salvation, even as our beloved brother Paul has also written to you according to the wisdom given to him." 
2Peter3:16 As in all his letters, he writes about these things, in which some things are hard to understand, which the unlearned and unstable distort, as they also do the other Scriptures, to their own destruction." 
2Peter3:17 You therefore, beloved, since you know these things beforehand, beware lest you also fall from your own firm footing, being led away by the deception of the wicked." 
2Peter3:18 But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be glory, both now and forever. Amen." 
1John1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have touched, concerning the Word of life—" 
1John1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have touched, concerning the Word of life—" 
1John1:2 the life was revealed, and we have seen it and testify to it, and announce to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was revealed to us —" 
1John1:2 the life was revealed, and we have seen it and testify to it, and announce to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was revealed to us —" 
1John1:3 we declare to you that which we have seen and heard, that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ." 
1John1:3 we declare to you that which we have seen and heard, that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ." 
1John1:4 We are writing these things to you so that our joy may be complete. 
1John1:4 We are writing these things to you so that our joy may be complete. 
1John1:5 This then is the message which we have heard from Him and declare to you: God is light, and in Him is no darkness at all." 
1John1:5 This then is the message which we have heard from Him and declare to you: God is light, and in Him is no darkness at all." 
1John1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with Him, yet walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth." 
1John1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with Him, yet walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth." 
1John1:7 But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanses us from all sin." 
1John1:7 But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanses us from all sin." 
1John1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us." 
1John1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us." 
1John1:9 If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:9 If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar and His word is not in us." 
1John1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar and His word is not in us." 
1John2:1 My little children, I am writing these things to you, so that you do not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous One." 
1John2:1 My little children, I am writing these things to you, so that you do not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous One." 
1John2:2 He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world." 
1John2:2 He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world." 
1John2:3 By this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments." 
1John2:3 By this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments." 
1John2:4 Whoever says, “I know Him,” and does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him." 
1John2:4 Whoever says, “I know Him,” and does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him." 
1John2:5 But whoever keeps His word truly has the love of God perfected in him. By this we know we are in Him. 
1John2:5 But whoever keeps His word truly has the love of God perfected in him. By this we know we are in Him. 
1John2:6 Whoever says he remains in Him ought to walk as He walked. 
1John2:6 Whoever says he remains in Him ought to walk as He walked. 
1John2:7 Brothers, I am writing no new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning." 
1John2:7 Brothers, I am writing no new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning." 
1John2:8 Yet a new commandment I am writing to you, which holds true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining." 
1John2:8 Yet a new commandment I am writing to you, which holds true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining." 
1John2:9 Whoever says he is in the light but hates his brother is in darkness even until now. 
1John2:9 Whoever says he is in the light but hates his brother is in darkness even until now. 
1John2:10 Whoever loves his brother lives in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling." 
1John2:10 Whoever loves his brother lives in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling." 
1John2:11 But whoever hates his brother is in darkness, and walks in darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes." 
1John2:11 But whoever hates his brother is in darkness, and walks in darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes." 
1John2:12 I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for His name’s sake." 
1John2:12 I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for His name’s sake." 
1John2:13 I am writing to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I am writing to you, little children, because you have known the Father." 
1John2:13 I am writing to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I am writing to you, little children, because you have known the Father." 
1John2:14 I have written to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God lives in you, and you have overcome the evil one." 
1John2:14 I have written to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God lives in you, and you have overcome the evil one." 
1John2:15 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him." 
1John2:15 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him." 
1John2:16 For all that is in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—is not of the Father, but is of the world." 
1John2:16 For all that is in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—is not of the Father, but is of the world." 
1John2:17 The world and its desires are passing away, but the one who does the will of God lives forever." 
1John2:17 The world and its desires are passing away, but the one who does the will of God lives forever." 
1John2:18 Little children, it is the last hour. As you have heard that the antichrist will come, even now there are many antichrists. By this we know that it is the last hour." 
1John2:18 Little children, it is the last hour. As you have heard that the antichrist will come, even now there are many antichrists. By this we know that it is the last hour." 
1John2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us, for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have remained with us. But they went out, revealing that none of them were of us." 
1John2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us, for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have remained with us. But they went out, revealing that none of them were of us." 
1John2:20 But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things." 
1John2:20 But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things." 
1John2:21 I have written to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth." 
1John2:21 I have written to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth." 
1John2:22 Who is a liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? Whoever denies the Father and the Son is the antichrist. 
1John2:22 Who is a liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? Whoever denies the Father and the Son is the antichrist. 
1John2:23 No one who denies the Son has the Father; the one who confesses the Son has the Father. 
1John2:23 No one who denies the Son has the Father; the one who confesses the Son has the Father. 
1John2:24 Therefore, let that which you have heard from the beginning remain in you. If that which you have heard from the beginning remains in you, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father." 
1John2:24 Therefore, let that which you have heard from the beginning remain in you. If that which you have heard from the beginning remains in you, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father." 
1John2:25 And this is the promise that He has promised us—eternal life. 
1John2:25 And this is the promise that He has promised us—eternal life. 
1John2:26 I have written these things to you concerning those who deceive you. 
1John2:26 I have written these things to you concerning those who deceive you. 
1John2:27 But the anointing which you have received from Him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. For as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and just as it has taught you, remain in Him." 
1John2:27 But the anointing which you have received from Him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. For as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and just as it has taught you, remain in Him." 
1John2:28 And now, little children, remain in Him, so that when He appears, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before Him when He comes." 
1John2:28 And now, little children, remain in Him, so that when He appears, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before Him when He comes." 
1John2:29 If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who does righteousness is born of Him." 
1John2:29 If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who does righteousness is born of Him." 
1John3:1 Consider how much love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God. Therefore the world does not know us, because it did not know Him." 
1John3:1 Consider how much love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God. Therefore the world does not know us, because it did not know Him." 
1John3:2 Beloved, now are we children of God, and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be. But we know that when He appears, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is." 
1John3:2 Beloved, now are we children of God, and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be. But we know that when He appears, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is." 
1John3:3 Everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure." 
1John3:3 Everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure." 
1John3:4 Whoever practices sin breaks the law, for sin is lawlessness." 
1John3:4 Whoever practices sin breaks the law, for sin is lawlessness." 
1John3:5 You know that He was revealed to take away our sins, and in Him there is no sin." 
1John3:5 You know that He was revealed to take away our sins, and in Him there is no sin." 
1John3:6 Whoever remains in Him does not sin. Whoever sins has not seen Him and does not know Him. 
1John3:6 Whoever remains in Him does not sin. Whoever sins has not seen Him and does not know Him. 
1John3:7 Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who does righteousness is righteous, just as Christ is righteous." 
1John3:7 Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who does righteousness is righteous, just as Christ is righteous." 
1John3:8 Whoever practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was revealed, that He might destroy the works of the devil." 
1John3:8 Whoever practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was revealed, that He might destroy the works of the devil." 
1John3:9 Whoever has been born of God does not practice sin, for His seed remains in him. And he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God." 
1John3:9 Whoever has been born of God does not practice sin, for His seed remains in him. And he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God." 
1John3:10 In this the children of God and the children of the devil are revealed: Whoever does not live in righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother." 
1John3:10 In this the children of God and the children of the devil are revealed: Whoever does not live in righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother." 
1John3:11 For this is the message that you heard from the beginning: We should love one another," 
1John3:11 For this is the message that you heard from the beginning: We should love one another," 
1John3:12 not like Cain, who was of the wicked one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother’s works were righteous." 
1John3:12 not like Cain, who was of the wicked one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother’s works were righteous." 
1John3:13 Do not marvel, my brothers, if the world hates you." 
1John3:13 Do not marvel, my brothers, if the world hates you." 
1John3:14 We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love his brother remains in death." 
1John3:14 We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love his brother remains in death." 
1John3:15 Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life remaining in him." 
1John3:15 Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life remaining in him." 
1John3:16 By this we know the love of God: that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers." 
1John3:16 By this we know the love of God: that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers." 
1John3:17 Whoever has the world’s goods and sees his brother in need, but closes his heart of compassion from him, how can the love of God remain in him?" 
1John3:17 Whoever has the world’s goods and sees his brother in need, but closes his heart of compassion from him, how can the love of God remain in him?" 
1John3:18 My little children, let us love not in word and speech, but in action and truth." 
1John3:18 My little children, let us love not in word and speech, but in action and truth." 
1John3:19 By this we know that we are of the truth, and shall reassure our hearts before Him." 
1John3:19 By this we know that we are of the truth, and shall reassure our hearts before Him." 
1John3:20 For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and knows everything." 
1John3:20 For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and knows everything." 
1John3:21 Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, then we have confidence before God." 
1John3:21 Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, then we have confidence before God." 
1John3:22 And whatever we ask, we will receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight." 
1John3:22 And whatever we ask, we will receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight." 
1John3:23 And this is His commandment: that we should believe on the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another as He commanded us. 
1John3:23 And this is His commandment: that we should believe on the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another as He commanded us. 
1John3:24 Now the one who keeps His commandments remains in Him, and He in him. And by this we know that He remains in us, through the Spirit whom He has given us." 
1John3:24 Now the one who keeps His commandments remains in Him, and He in him. And by this we know that He remains in us, through the Spirit whom He has given us." 
1John4:1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world." 
1John4:1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world." 
1John4:2 This is how you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the body is from God," 
1John4:2 This is how you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the body is from God," 
1John4:3 and every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the body is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you have heard is coming and is already in the world." 
1John4:3 and every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the body is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you have heard is coming and is already in the world." 
1John4:4 You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world." 
1John4:4 You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world." 
1John4:5 They are of the world, and therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them." 
1John4:5 They are of the world, and therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them." 
1John4:6 We are of God, and whoever knows God listens to us. Whoever is not of God does not listen to us. This is how we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error." 
1John4:6 We are of God, and whoever knows God listens to us. Whoever is not of God does not listen to us. This is how we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error." 
1John4:7 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God." 
1John4:7 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God." 
1John4:8 Anyone who does not love does not know God, for God is love." 
1John4:8 Anyone who does not love does not know God, for God is love." 
1John4:9 In this way the love of God was revealed to us, that God sent His only Son into the world, that we might live through Him." 
1John4:9 In this way the love of God was revealed to us, that God sent His only Son into the world, that we might live through Him." 
1John4:10 In this is love: not that we loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins." 
1John4:10 In this is love: not that we loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins." 
1John4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we must also love one another." 
1John4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we must also love one another." 
1John4:12 No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwells in us, and His love is perfected in us." 
1John4:12 No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwells in us, and His love is perfected in us." 
1John4:13 We know that we live in Him, and He in us, because He has given us His Spirit." 
1John4:13 We know that we live in Him, and He in us, because He has given us His Spirit." 
1John4:14 And we have seen and testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. 
1John4:14 And we have seen and testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. 
1John4:15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in him, and he in God." 
1John4:15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in him, and he in God." 
1John4:16 And we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in him." 
1John4:16 And we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in him." 
1John4:17 In this way God’s love is perfected in us, so that we may have boldness on the Day of Judgment, because as He is, so are we in this world." 
1John4:17 In this way God’s love is perfected in us, so that we may have boldness on the Day of Judgment, because as He is, so are we in this world." 
1John4:18 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear has to do with punishment. Whoever fears is not perfect in love." 
1John4:18 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear has to do with punishment. Whoever fears is not perfect in love." 
1John4:19 We love Him because He first loved us. 
1John4:19 We love Him because He first loved us. 
1John4:20 If anyone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar. For whoever does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen?" 
1John4:20 If anyone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar. For whoever does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen?" 
1John4:21 We have this commandment from Him: Whoever loves God must also love his brother. 
1John4:21 We have this commandment from Him: Whoever loves God must also love his brother. 
1John5:1 Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves the one born of the Father." 
1John5:1 Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves the one born of the Father." 
1John5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God: when we love God and keep His commandments. 
1John5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God: when we love God and keep His commandments. 
1John5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not burdensome," 
1John5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not burdensome," 
1John5:4 for whoever is born of God overcomes the world, and the victory that overcomes the world is our faith." 
1John5:4 for whoever is born of God overcomes the world, and the victory that overcomes the world is our faith." 
1John5:5 Who is it that overcomes the world, but the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?" 
1John5:5 Who is it that overcomes the world, but the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?" 
1John5:6 This is He who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and blood. It is the Spirit who bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth." 
1John5:6 This is He who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and blood. It is the Spirit who bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth." 
1John5:7 There are three who testify in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and the three are one." 
1John5:7 There are three who testify in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and the three are one." 
1John5:8 There are three that testify on earth: the Spirit, the water, and the blood, and the three are in agreement." 
1John5:8 There are three that testify on earth: the Spirit, the water, and the blood, and the three are in agreement." 
1John5:9 If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater; for this is the testimony of God which He has given concerning His Son." 
1John5:9 If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater; for this is the testimony of God which He has given concerning His Son." 
1John5:10 Whoever believes in the Son of God has this witness in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made Him out to be a liar, because he does not believe the testimony that God gave about His Son." 
1John5:10 Whoever believes in the Son of God has this witness in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made Him out to be a liar, because he does not believe the testimony that God gave about His Son." 
1John5:11 And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son." 
1John5:11 And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son." 
1John5:12 Whoever has the Son has life, and whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life." 
1John5:12 Whoever has the Son has life, and whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life." 
1John5:13 I have written these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God." 
1John5:13 I have written these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God." 
1John5:14 This is the confidence that we have in Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us." 
1John5:14 This is the confidence that we have in Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us." 
1John5:15 So if we know that He hears whatever we ask, we know that we have whatever we asked of Him." 
1John5:15 So if we know that He hears whatever we ask, we know that we have whatever we asked of Him." 
1John5:16 If anyone sees his brother commit a sin which does not lead to death, he shall ask, and He shall give him life. This is for those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I do not say that he should pray for it." 
1John5:16 If anyone sees his brother commit a sin which does not lead to death, he shall ask, and He shall give him life. This is for those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I do not say that he should pray for it." 
1John5:17 All wrongdoing is sin, but there is a sin that does not lead to death." 
1John5:17 All wrongdoing is sin, but there is a sin that does not lead to death." 
1John5:18 We know that whoever is born of God does not keep on sinning. But whoever has been born of God guards himself, and the wicked one cannot touch him." 
1John5:18 We know that whoever is born of God does not keep on sinning. But whoever has been born of God guards himself, and the wicked one cannot touch him." 
1John5:19 We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in wickedness." 
1John5:19 We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in wickedness." 
1John5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know Him who is true, and we are in Him who is true —His Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life." 
1John5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know Him who is true, and we are in Him who is true —His Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life." 
1John5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen." 
1John5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen." 
2John1:1 The elder, To the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all those who know the truth," 
2John1:1 The elder, To the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all those who know the truth," 
2John1:2 for the sake of the truth, which remains in us, and will be with us forever:" 
2John1:2 for the sake of the truth, which remains in us, and will be with us forever:" 
2John1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with you from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love." 
2John1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with you from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love." 
2John1:4 I greatly rejoiced that I found some of your children walking in truth as we were commanded by the Father. 
2John1:4 I greatly rejoiced that I found some of your children walking in truth as we were commanded by the Father. 
2John1:5 And now I ask you, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment to you, but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another." 
2John1:5 And now I ask you, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment to you, but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another." 
2John1:6 And this is love: that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, that as you have heard from the beginning, you should walk in it." 
2John1:6 And this is love: that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, that as you have heard from the beginning, you should walk in it." 
2John1:7 For many deceivers, who do not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the body, have gone out into the world. Each one is a deceiver and an antichrist." 
2John1:7 For many deceivers, who do not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the body, have gone out into the world. Each one is a deceiver and an antichrist." 
2John1:8 Watch yourselves, so that we do not lose those things for which we have worked, but that we receive a full reward." 
2John1:8 Watch yourselves, so that we do not lose those things for which we have worked, but that we receive a full reward." 
2John1:9 Whoever transgresses and does not remain in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever remains in the teaching of Christ has both the Father and the Son. 
2John1:9 Whoever transgresses and does not remain in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever remains in the teaching of Christ has both the Father and the Son. 
2John1:10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, nor greet him." 
2John1:10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, nor greet him." 
2John1:11 For whoever greets him takes part in his evil deeds. 
2John1:11 For whoever greets him takes part in his evil deeds. 
2John1:12 I have many things to write to you, but I prefer not to write with papyrus and ink. Instead, I hope to come to you and speak face to face that our joy may be complete." 
2John1:12 I have many things to write to you, but I prefer not to write with papyrus and ink. Instead, I hope to come to you and speak face to face that our joy may be complete." 
2John1:13 The children of your elect sister greet you. Amen. 
2John1:13 The children of your elect sister greet you. Amen. 
3John1:1 The elder, To the beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth:" 
3John1:1 The elder, To the beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth:" 
3John1:2 Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, even as your soul is well." 
3John1:2 Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, even as your soul is well." 
3John1:3 For I greatly rejoiced when brothers came and testified of the truth that is in you, just as you walk in the truth." 
3John1:3 For I greatly rejoiced when brothers came and testified of the truth that is in you, just as you walk in the truth." 
3John1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. 
3John1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. 
3John1:5 Beloved, you are faithful in all you do for the brothers and for strangers," 
3John1:5 Beloved, you are faithful in all you do for the brothers and for strangers," 
3John1:6 who have testified of your love before the church. You will do well to send them along on their journey in a manner worthy of God. 
3John1:6 who have testified of your love before the church. You will do well to send them along on their journey in a manner worthy of God. 
3John1:7 For His name’s sake they went out, receiving no help from the Gentiles." 
3John1:7 For His name’s sake they went out, receiving no help from the Gentiles." 
3John1:8 Therefore we ought to receive such men, that we might be fellow workers for the truth." 
3John1:8 Therefore we ought to receive such men, that we might be fellow workers for the truth." 
3John1:9 I wrote to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to put himself first among them, did not accept us." 
3John1:9 I wrote to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to put himself first among them, did not accept us." 
3John1:10 Because of this, if I come, I will bring up what kinds of works he does: ranting against us with malicious words. Not content with that, he does not accept the brothers, and stops those who want to, and throws them out of the church." 
3John1:10 Because of this, if I come, I will bring up what kinds of works he does: ranting against us with malicious words. Not content with that, he does not accept the brothers, and stops those who want to, and throws them out of the church." 
3John1:11 Beloved, do not imitate that which is evil, but that which is good. Whoever does good is from God, but whoever does evil has not seen God." 
3John1:11 Beloved, do not imitate that which is evil, but that which is good. Whoever does good is from God, but whoever does evil has not seen God." 
3John1:12 Demetrius receives good reports from everyone and from the truth itself. Yes, and we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true." 
3John1:12 Demetrius receives good reports from everyone and from the truth itself. Yes, and we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true." 
3John1:13 I had many things to write, but I would rather not write to you with a reed and ink." 
3John1:13 I had many things to write, but I would rather not write to you with a reed and ink." 
3John1:14 Instead, I hope to see you soon, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name." 
3John1:14 Instead, I hope to see you soon, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name." 
Jude1:1 Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and a brother of James, To those who are sanctified and called by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ:" 
Jude1:1 Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and a brother of James, To those who are sanctified and called by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ:" 
Jude1:2 May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you." 
Jude1:3 Beloved, while I diligently tried to write to you of the salvation we have in common, I found it necessary to write and appeal to you to contend for the faith which was once delivered to the saints." 
Jude1:4 For there are some men who secretly crept in, who were marked long ago for this condemnation. They are ungodly men, who pervert the grace of our God into immorality and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ." 
Jude1:5 Now I want to remind you, though you already know, that the Lord saved the people out of the land of Egypt and afterward destroyed those who did not believe." 
Jude1:6 Likewise, the angels who did not keep to their first domain, but forsook their own dwelling, He has kept in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day." 
Jude1:7 Just as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the surrounding cities in like manner, gave themselves to immorality and went after different flesh, they serve as an example by suffering the punishment of eternal fire." 
Jude1:8 Likewise, these ungodly dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and slander celestial beings." 
Jude1:9 Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil in a dispute about the body of Moses, did not dare to pronounce upon him a railing judgment. But he said, “The Lord rebuke you!”" 
Jude1:10 But these men slander those things that they do not understand. But they destroy themselves in those things that, like unreasoning animals, they know by instinct." 
Jude1:11 Woe to them! For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily after the error of Balaam for a reward, and perished in the rebellion of Korah." 
Jude1:12 These are the ones who are stains on your love feasts as they feast with you irreverently and care only for themselves. They are clouds without water, carried along by winds; autumn trees without fruit, twice dead, uprooted;" 
Jude1:13 raging waves of the sea, which are foaming up their own shame; wandering stars for whom the gloom of darkness has been kept forever." 
Jude1:14 Enoch, the seventh generation from Adam, also prophesied of these men, saying, “Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of His holy ones," 
Jude1:15 to execute judgment on everyone, and to convict all who are godless of all their wicked deeds that they have committed, and of all the terrible words that godless sinners have spoken against Him.”" 
Jude1:16 These men are grumblers, complainers, who walk after their own lusts. Their mouths speak arrogant words, and they flatter others to gain profit." 
Jude1:17 But, beloved, remember the words that were previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
Jude1:18 They said to you, “In the last days there will be scoffers who will walk after their own ungodly desires.”" 
Jude1:19 These are the men who cause divisions, sensual, devoid of the Spirit." 
Jude1:20 But you, beloved, build yourselves up in your most holy faith. Pray in the Holy Spirit." 
Jude1:21 Keep yourselves in the love of God while you are waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, which leads to eternal life." 
Jude1:22 On some have compassion, using discernment." 
Jude1:23 And others save with fear while pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment stained by the sinful nature." 
Jude1:24 Now to Him who is able to keep you from falling and to present you blameless before the presence of His glory with rejoicing," 
Jude1:25 to the only wise God our Savior, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever. Amen." 
Revelation1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to Him to show to His servants things which must soon take place. He sent and signified it by His angel to His servant John," 
Revelation1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to Him to show to His servants things which must soon take place. He sent and signified it by His angel to His servant John," 
Revelation1:2 who bears record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw." 
Revelation1:3 Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written in it, for the time is near." 
Revelation1:4 John, To the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from Him who is and who was and who is to come and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne," 
Revelation1:4 John, To the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from Him who is and who was and who is to come and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne," 
Revelation1:5 and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood," 
Revelation1:6 and has made us kings and priests to His God and Father, to Him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen." 
Revelation1:7 Behold, He is coming with clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced Him. And all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of Him. Even so, Amen." 
Revelation1:8 “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End,” says the Lord, “who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.”" 
Revelation1:9 I, John, both your brother and companion in the persecution and kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was on the isle that is called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ." 
Revelation1:9 I, John, both your brother and companion in the persecution and kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was on the isle that is called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ." 
Revelation1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s Day, and I heard behind me a great voice like a trumpet," 
Revelation1:11 saying, “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last,” and “What you see, write in a book, and send it to the seven churches which are in Asia: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.”" 
Revelation1:12 I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. And when I turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks," 
Revelation1:13 and in the midst of the seven candlesticks was one like a Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the feet and with a golden sash wrapped around the chest." 
Revelation1:14 The hair on His head was white like wool, as white as snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire." 
Revelation1:15 His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and His voice as the sound of many waters." 
Revelation1:16 He had in His right hand seven stars, and out of His mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. His appearance was like the sun shining brightly." 
Revelation1:17 When I saw Him, I fell at His feet as though I were dead. Then He laid His right hand on me, saying to me, “Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last." 
Revelation1:18 I am He who lives, though I was dead. Behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of Hades and of Death." 
Revelation1:19 “Write the things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will take place after this." 
Revelation1:20 The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in My right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks: The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which you saw are the seven churches." 
Revelation2:1 “To the angel of the church of Ephesus write: “He who holds the seven stars in His right hand, who walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, says these things:" 
Revelation2:2 I know your works, your labor and your patience, and that you cannot bear those who are evil. And you have tested those who say they are apostles, but are not, and have found them to be liars." 
Revelation2:3 You have endured, and have been patient, and for My name’s sake have labored and have not grown weary." 
Revelation2:4 “But I have something against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first." 
Revelation2:5 Remember therefore from where you have fallen. Repent, and do the works you did at first, or else I will come to you quickly and remove your candlestick from its place, unless you repent." 
Revelation2:6 But this you have: You hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate." 
Revelation2:7 “He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give permission to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of God." 
Revelation2:8 “To the angel of the church in Smyrna write: “The First and the Last, who was dead and came to life, says these things:" 
Revelation2:9 I know your works and tribulation and poverty (but you are rich). And I know the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan." 
Revelation2:10 Do not fear any of those things which you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tried, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life." 
Revelation2:11 “He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall not be hurt by the second death." 
Revelation2:12 “To the angel of the church in Pergamum write: “He who has the sharp two-edged sword says these things: 
Revelation2:13 I know your works and where you live, where Satan’s throne is. Yet you hold firmly to My name, and did not deny My faith even in the days of Antipas, My faithful martyr, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells." 
Revelation2:14 “But I have a few things against you: You have there those who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the Israelites, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality." 
Revelation2:15 So you also have those who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans. 
Revelation2:16 Repent, or else I will come to you quickly and will war against them with the sword of My mouth." 
Revelation2:17 “He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give the hidden manna to eat. And I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows except he who receives it." 
Revelation2:18 “To the angel of the church in Thyatira write: “The Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like fine brass, says these things:" 
Revelation2:19 I know your works, love, service, faith, and your patience, and that your last works are more than the first." 
Revelation2:20 “But I have a few things against you: You permit that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and seduce My servants to commit sexual immorality and eat food sacrificed to idols." 
Revelation2:21 I gave her time to repent of her sexual immorality, but she did not repent." 
Revelation2:22 Behold, I will throw her onto a bed of disease, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds." 
Revelation2:23 I will put her children to death, and all the churches shall know that I am He who searches the hearts and minds. I will give to each one of you according to your deeds." 
Revelation2:24 “Now to you I say, and to the rest in Thyatira, as many as do not have this teaching, who have not known what some call the ‘depths of Satan,’ I will put on you no other burden." 
Revelation2:25 But hold firmly what you have until I come. 
Revelation2:26 “To him who overcomes and keeps My works to the end, I will give authority over the nations —" 
Revelation2:27 He ‘shall rule them with a rod of iron; like the vessels of a potter they shall be broken in pieces’ — even as I myself have received authority from My Father. 
Revelation2:28 And I will give him the morning star. 
Revelation2:29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches." 
Revelation3:1 “To the angel of the church in Sardis write: “He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says these things: I know your works, that you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead." 
Revelation3:2 Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain but are ready to die, for I have not found your works perfected before God." 
Revelation3:3 Remember therefore how you have received and heard; hold fast and repent. Therefore if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you will not know what hour I will come upon you." 
Revelation3:4 “You have a few names even in Sardis who have not soiled their garments. They shall walk with Me in white, for they are worthy." 
Revelation3:5 He who overcomes shall be clothed in white garments. I will not blot his name out of the Book of Life, but I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels." 
Revelation3:6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches." 
Revelation3:7 “To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: “He who is holy, He who is true, He who has the key of David, He who opens and no one shuts, and shuts and no one opens, says these things:" 
Revelation3:8 I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, and no one can shut it. For you have a little strength, and have kept My word, and have not denied My name." 
Revelation3:9 Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan, who say they are Jews and are not, but lie. Behold, I will make them come and worship before your feet and to know that I have loved you." 
Revelation3:10 Because you have kept My word of patience, I also will keep you from the hour of temptation which shall come upon the entire world, to test those who dwell on the earth." 
Revelation3:11 “Look, I am coming quickly. Hold firmly what you have, so that no one may take your crown." 
Revelation3:12 He who overcomes will I make a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall go out no more. I will write on him the name of My God and the name of the city of My God, the New Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from My God, and My own new name." 
Revelation3:13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches." 
Revelation3:14 “To the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write: “The Amen, the Faithful and True Witness, the Beginning of the creation of God, says these things:" 
Revelation3:15 I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot." 
Revelation3:16 So then, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spit you out of My mouth." 
Revelation3:17 For you say, ‘I am rich, and have stored up goods, and have need of nothing,’ yet do not realize that you are wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked." 
Revelation3:18 I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined by fire, that you may be rich, and white garments, that you may be dressed, that the shame of your nakedness may not appear, and anoint your eyes with eye salve, that you may see." 
Revelation3:19 “Those whom I love, I rebuke and discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent." 
Revelation3:20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in and dine with him, and he with Me." 
Revelation3:21 “To him who overcomes will I grant to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne." 
Revelation3:22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.”" 
Revelation4:1 After this I looked. And behold, there was an open door in heaven. The first voice I heard was like a trumpet speaking with me, saying, “Come up here, and I will show you things which must take place after this.”" 
Revelation4:2 Immediately I was in the Spirit. And behold, there was a throne set in heaven with One sitting on the throne!" 
Revelation4:3 And He who sat there appeared like a jasper and a sardius stone. There was a rainbow around the throne, appearing like an emerald." 
Revelation4:4 Twenty-four thrones were around the throne. And I saw twenty-four elders sitting on the thrones, clothed in white garments. They had crowns of gold on their heads." 
Revelation4:5 Lightnings and thunderings and voices proceeded from the throne. Seven lamps of fire were burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God." 
Revelation4:6 Before the throne was a sea of glass like crystal. In the midst of the throne, and around the throne, were four living creatures covered with eyes in front and in back." 
Revelation4:7 The first living creature was like a lion, the second living creature like a calf, the third living creature had a face like a man, and the fourth creature was like a flying eagle." 
Revelation4:8 The four living creatures had six wings each, and they were covered with eyes all around. All day and night, without ceasing, they were saying: “ ‘Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty,’ who was, and is, and is to come.”" 
Revelation4:9 When the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits on the throne, who lives forever and ever," 
Revelation4:10 the twenty-four elders fall down before Him who sits on the throne, and worship Him, who lives forever and ever. Then they cast their crowns before the throne, saying," 
Revelation4:11 “You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power; for You have created all things, and by Your will they exist and were created.”" 
Revelation5:1 Then I saw in the right hand of Him who sat on the throne a scroll written on the front and back, sealed with seven seals." 
Revelation5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?”" 
Revelation5:3 But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look in it. 
Revelation5:4 I began to weep loudly, because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll, or to look in it." 
Revelation5:5 Then one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has triumphed. He is able to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals.”" 
Revelation5:6 I saw a Lamb in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, standing as though it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent out into all the earth." 
Revelation5:7 He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who sat on the throne. 
Revelation5:8 When He had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one having a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of saints." 
Revelation5:9 And they sang a new song, saying: “You are worthy to take the scroll, and to open its seals; for You were slain, and have redeemed us to God by Your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation," 
Revelation5:10 and have made us kings and priests unto our God; and we shall reign on the earth.” 
Revelation5:11 Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voices of many angels, numbering ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands," 
Revelation5:12 saying with a loud voice: “Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing!”" 
Revelation5:13 Then I heard every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that are in them, saying: “To Him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and power, forever and ever!”" 
Revelation5:14 The four living creatures said, “Amen.” And the twenty-four elders fell down and worshipped Him who lives forever and ever." 
Revelation6:1 I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals. Then I heard one of the four living creatures saying, with voice like thunder, “Come and see.”" 
Revelation6:2 And I looked, and behold, there before me was a white horse. He who sat on it had a bow. And a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering that he might overcome." 
Revelation6:3 When He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, “Come and see.”" 
Revelation6:4 Then another horse that was red went forth. Power was given to him who sat on it to take peace from the earth, causing people to kill one another. Then a great sword was given to him." 
Revelation6:5 When He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, “Come!” I looked, and behold, there was a black horse, and he who sat on it had a pair of scales in his hand." 
Revelation6:6 Then I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, “A quart of wheat for a day’s wages, and three quarts of barley for a day’s wages, and do not harm the oil and the wine.”" 
Revelation6:7 When He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, “Come!”" 
Revelation6:8 So I looked, and behold, there was a pale horse, and the name of him who sat on it was Death, and Hades followed him. Power over one-fourth of the earth was given to them, to kill with sword, with hunger, with death, and by the beasts of the earth." 
Revelation6:9 When He opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the testimony they had held." 
Revelation6:10 They cried out with a loud voice, “How long, O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, until You judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?”" 
Revelation6:11 Then a white robe was given to each of them, and they were told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and brothers should be completed, who would be killed as they were." 
Revelation6:12 I watched as He opened the sixth seal. And behold, there was a great earthquake. The sun became black, like sackcloth made from goat hair, and the moon became like blood." 
Revelation6:13 And the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as a fig tree drops its unripe figs when it is shaken by a strong wind." 
Revelation6:14 Then the heavens receded like a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place." 
Revelation6:15 Then the kings of the earth and the great men and the rich men and the commanding officers and the strong and everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains." 
Revelation6:16 They said to the mountains and rocks, “Fall on us, and hide us from the face of Him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb," 
Revelation6:17 for the great day of His wrath has come. Who is able to withstand it?” 
Revelation7:1 Then I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind would not blow on the earth or on the sea or on any tree." 
Revelation7:2 And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God. He cried out with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm the earth and the sea," 
Revelation7:3 saying, “Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads.”" 
Revelation7:4 Then I heard the number of those who were sealed, one hundred and forty-four thousand out of every tribe of the Israelites:" 
Revelation7:5 Twelve thousand from the tribe of Judah were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Reuben were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Gad were sealed," 
Revelation7:6 twelve thousand from the tribe of Asher were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Naphtali were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Manasseh were sealed," 
Revelation7:7 twelve thousand from the tribe of Simeon were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Levi were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar were sealed," 
Revelation7:8 twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph were sealed, and twelve thousand from the tribe of Benjamin were sealed." 
Revelation7:9 Then I looked. And behold, there was a great multitude which no one could count, from all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, with palm branches in their hands." 
Revelation7:10 They cried out with a loud voice: “Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!”" 
Revelation7:11 All the angels stood around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures and fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God," 
Revelation7:12 saying: “Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen.” 
Revelation7:13 Then one of the elders asked me, “Who are these clothed in white robes, and where did they come from?”" 
Revelation7:14 I said to him, “Sir, you know.” He said to me, “These are those who came out of great persecution and washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb." 
Revelation7:15 Therefore, they are before the throne of God, and serve Him day and night in His temple. And He who sits on the throne will dwell among them." 
Revelation7:16 ‘They shall neither hunger any more, nor shall they thirst any more; the sun shall not strike them,’ nor any scorching heat;" 
Revelation7:17 for the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and ‘He will lead them to springs of living water.’ ‘And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.’ ” 
Revelation8:1 When He opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour." 
Revelation8:2 And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them." 
Revelation8:3 Another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne." 
Revelation8:4 The smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel’s hand." 
Revelation8:5 Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it onto the earth. And there were noises, thundering, lightning, and an earthquake." 
Revelation8:6 Then the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound them. 
Revelation8:7 The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mixed with blood, and they were thrown upon the earth. One-third of the trees and all the green grass were burned up." 
Revelation8:8 Then the second angel sounded, and something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown into the sea. One-third of the sea became blood," 
Revelation8:9 one-third of the living creatures in the sea died, and one-third of the ships were destroyed." 
Revelation8:10 The third angel sounded, and a great star from heaven, burning like a torch, fell on one-third of the rivers and on the springs of waters." 
Revelation8:11 The name of this star is Wormwood. One-third of the waters became wormwood, and many men died from the waters, because they were made bitter." 
Revelation8:12 The fourth angel sounded, and one-third of the sun was struck, and one-third of the moon, and one-third of the stars, so that one-third of them were darkened. One-third of the day had no light, and likewise one-third of the night." 
Revelation8:13 Then I watched, and I heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth, because of the other trumpet blasts of the three angels, who are yet to sound!”" 
Revelation9:1 The fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to the earth. The star was given the key to the bottomless pit." 
Revelation9:2 He opened the bottomless pit, and smoke ascended from the pit, like the smoke of a great furnace. The sun and the air were darkened by the smoke from the pit." 
Revelation9:3 And out of the smoke locusts came upon the earth. Power was given them as the scorpions of the earth have power. 
Revelation9:4 They were commanded not to harm the grass of the earth, or any green thing, or any tree, but only those men who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads." 
Revelation9:5 They were given authority, not to kill them, but to torment them for five months. Their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings a man." 
Revelation9:6 In those days men will seek death but will not find it. They will desire to die, but death will elude them." 
Revelation9:7 The shape of the locusts was like horses prepared for battle. On their heads were something like crowns of gold, and their faces were like faces of men." 
Revelation9:8 They had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions." 
Revelation9:9 They had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots with many horses running to battle." 
Revelation9:10 They had tails like scorpions and stings in their tails. Their power was to hurt men for five months. 
Revelation9:11 They had as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek his name is Apollyon." 
Revelation9:12 The first woe is past. Behold, two more woes are yet to come." 
Revelation9:13 The sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God," 
Revelation9:14 saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, “Release the four angels who are bound at the great Euphrates River.”" 
Revelation9:15 And the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year, were released to kill one-third of mankind." 
Revelation9:16 The army of horsemen numbered two hundred million. I heard their number. 
Revelation9:17 Thus I saw the horses in the vision: Those who sat on them had breastplates of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and sulfur yellow. The heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and out of their mouths came fire and smoke and brimstone." 
Revelation9:18 One-third of mankind was killed by these three plagues —by the fire and by the smoke and by the brimstone, which came out of their mouths." 
Revelation9:19 The power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents, with heads by which they inflict injury." 
Revelation9:20 The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands. They did not cease to worship demons, and idols of gold, silver, brass, stone, and wood, which cannot see nor hear nor walk." 
Revelation9:21 Nor did they repent of their murders or their magical arts or their sexual immorality or their thefts. 
Revelation10:1 Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, clothed with a cloud and a rainbow on his head. His face was like the sun, and his feet like pillars of fire." 
Revelation10:2 He had a little scroll open in his hand. He set his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land," 
Revelation10:3 and cried out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring. When he cried out, seven thunders sounded their voices." 
Revelation10:4 And when the seven thunders sounded their voices, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, “Seal up those things which the seven thunders said, and do not write them.”" 
Revelation10:5 The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the earth lifted up his hand to heaven 
Revelation10:6 and swore by Him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in them, and the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it, that there should be no more delay." 
Revelation10:7 But in the days when the seventh angel is about to sound, the mystery of God will be fulfilled, as He has declared to His servants the prophets." 
Revelation10:8 Then the voice which I heard from heaven spoke to me again and said, “Go, take the little scroll which is open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the earth.”" 
Revelation10:9 So I went to the angel and said to him, “Give me the little scroll.” He said to me, “Take it and eat it. ‘It will turn your stomach sour, but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.’ ”" 
Revelation10:10 I took the little scroll from the angel’s hand and ate it. It was as sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it, my stomach turned sour." 
Revelation10:11 Then he said to me, “You must prophesy again about many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.”" 
Revelation11:1 I was given a reed like a measuring rod. The angel stood, saying, “Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar, and those who worship in it." 
Revelation11:2 But exclude the court which is outside the temple, and do not measure it, for it has been given to the nations. They will trample on the Holy City for forty-two months." 
Revelation11:3 And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.”" 
Revelation11:4 These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth. 
Revelation11:5 If anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. If anyone desires to harm them, he must be killed in this way." 
Revelation11:6 They have power to shut heaven, that it may not rain during the days of their prophecy. They have power over waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every plague as often as they desire." 
Revelation11:7 When they have finished their testimony, the beast that ascends from the bottomless pit will wage war against them and overcome them and kill them." 
Revelation11:8 Their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified." 
Revelation11:9 Those from every people and tribe and tongue and nation will see their dead bodies for three and a half days, and will not allow their dead bodies to be put in graves." 
Revelation11:10 Those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth." 
Revelation11:11 After the three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered them, and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them." 
Revelation11:12 Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “Come up here!” And they ascended to heaven in a cloud, while their enemies watched them." 
Revelation11:13 At that same hour there was a great earthquake, and one-tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand men were killed in the earthquake, and the remnant were frightened and gave glory to the God of heaven." 
Revelation11:14 The second woe is past. Behold, the third woe is coming quickly." 
Revelation11:15 The seventh angel sounded, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying: “The kingdoms of the world have become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of His Christ, and He shall reign forever and ever.”" 
Revelation11:16 And the twenty-four elders, who sat before God on their thrones, fell on their faces and worshipped God," 
Revelation11:17 saying: “We give You thanks, O Lord God Almighty, who is and was and who is to come, because You have taken Your great power and begun to reign." 
Revelation11:18 The nations were angry, and Your wrath has come, and the time has come for the dead to be judged, and to reward Your servants the prophets and the saints and those who fear Your name, small and great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.”" 
Revelation11:19 Then the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of His covenant was seen in His temple. And there came lightning, noises, thundering, an earthquake, and great hail." 
Revelation12:1 A great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." 
Revelation12:2 She was with child and cried out in labor and in pain to give birth. 
Revelation12:3 Then another sign appeared in heaven: Behold, there was a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and seven diadems on his heads." 
Revelation12:4 His tail drew one-third of the stars of heaven, and threw them to the earth. The dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth, to devour her Child as soon as He was born." 
Revelation12:5 She gave birth to a male Child, “who was to rule all nations with an iron scepter.” And her Child was caught up to God and to His throne." 
Revelation12:6 The woman fled into the wilderness where she has a place prepared by God, that they may nourish her there for one thousand two hundred and sixty days." 
Revelation12:7 Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought," 
Revelation12:8 but they did not prevail, nor was there a place for them in heaven any longer." 
Revelation12:9 The great dragon was cast out, that ancient serpent called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was cast down to the earth, and his angels were cast down with him." 
Revelation12:10 Then I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying: “Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers, who accused them before our God day and night, has been cast down." 
Revelation12:11 They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death." 
Revelation12:12 Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them! Woe unto the inhabitants of the earth and the sea! For the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short.”" 
Revelation12:13 When the dragon saw that he was cast down to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male Child." 
Revelation12:14 The woman was given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent." 
Revelation12:15 Then the serpent spewed water out of his mouth like a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood." 
Revelation12:16 But the earth helped the woman. The earth opened its mouth and swallowed the flood which the dragon spewed out of his mouth. 
Revelation12:17 Then the dragon was angry with the woman, and he went to wage war with the remnant of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." 
Revelation13:1 I stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, with ten crowns on his horns, and blasphemous names on his heads." 
Revelation13:2 The beast which I saw was like a leopard. His feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave him his power and his throne and great authority." 
Revelation13:3 I saw one of his heads as if it was mortally wounded, but his deadly wound was healed, and the whole world marveled and followed the beast." 
Revelation13:4 They worshipped the dragon who gave authority to the beast. And they worshipped the beast, saying, “Who is like the beast? Who is able to wage war with him?”" 
Revelation13:5 He was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies. And he was given authority to wage war for forty-two months. 
Revelation13:6 He opened his mouth to speak blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle and those who dwell in heaven." 
Revelation13:7 It was granted to him to wage war with the saints and to overcome them. And authority was given him over every tribe and tongue and nation. 
Revelation13:8 All who dwell on the earth will worship him, all whose names have not been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb who was slain from the foundation of the world." 
Revelation13:9 If anyone has an ear, let him hear:" 
Revelation13:10 “He who is to be taken captive, into captivity he shall go; he who kills with the sword, with the sword he must be killed.” Here is a call for the patience and the faith of the saints." 
Revelation13:11 Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. He had two horns like a lamb and he spoke like a dragon. 
Revelation13:12 He exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence and causes the earth and those who dwell on it to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed." 
Revelation13:13 He performs great signs, making fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men." 
Revelation13:14 He deceives those who dwell on the earth by the signs which he was granted to do in the presence of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who was wounded by a sword and lived." 
Revelation13:15 He was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed." 
Revelation13:16 He causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead," 
Revelation13:17 so that no one may buy or sell, except he who has the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name." 
Revelation13:18 Here is a call for wisdom: Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast. It is the number of a man. His number is six hundred and sixty-six. 
Revelation14:1 Then I looked. And behold, the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion and with Him one hundred and forty-four thousand having His Father’s name written on their foreheads." 
Revelation14:2 And I heard a sound from heaven, like the sound of many waters and like the sound of a great thunder. I heard the sound of harpists playing their harps." 
Revelation14:3 They sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn that song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who were redeemed from the earth. 
Revelation14:4 These are those who were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are those who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These were redeemed from among men, as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb." 
Revelation14:5 No lie was found in their mouths, for they are without fault before the throne of God." 
Revelation14:6 Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the eternal gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation and tribe and tongue and people." 
Revelation14:7 He said with a loud voice, “Fear God and give Him glory, for the hour of His judgment has come. Worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water.”" 
Revelation14:8 Another angel followed, saying, “ ‘Fallen! Fallen is Babylon, that Great City,’ because she made all the nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality.”" 
Revelation14:9 A third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand," 
Revelation14:10 he also shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out in full strength into the cup of His anger. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb." 
Revelation14:11 The smoke of their torment will ascend forever and ever. They have no rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image and whoever receives the mark of his name.”" 
Revelation14:12 Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. 
Revelation14:13 Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, “Write: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “that they may rest from their labors, for their works follow them.”" 
Revelation14:14 I looked. And behold, there was a white cloud, and on the cloud sat One like a Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle." 
Revelation14:15 Then another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to Him who sat on the cloud, “Thrust in Your sickle and reap. The time has come for You to reap, for the harvest of the earth is ripe.”" 
Revelation14:16 So He who sat on the cloud thrust His sickle on the earth, and the earth was harvested." 
Revelation14:17 Another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven. He also had a sharp sickle. 
Revelation14:18 Yet another angel who had authority over fire came out from the altar. He cried with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, “Thrust in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripe.”" 
Revelation14:19 The angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vintage of the earth, and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God." 
Revelation14:20 The winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress, up to the horses’ bridles, for one hundred and eighty-six miles." 
Revelation15:1 I saw another great and marvelous sign in heaven: seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them the wrath of God is complete." 
Revelation15:2 And I saw what looked like a sea of glass mixed with fire, and those who have the victory over the beast, over his image and over his mark and over the number of his name, standing on the sea of glass, having harps of God." 
Revelation15:3 They sang the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying: “Great and marvelous are Your works, Lord God Almighty! Just and true are Your ways, O King of saints!" 
Revelation15:4 Who shall not fear You, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy. All nations shall come and worship before You, for Your judgments have been revealed.”" 
Revelation15:5 After this I looked. And now the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened. 
Revelation15:6 The seven angels came out of the temple with the seven plagues. They were clothed in pure, bright linen, having their chests wrapped with golden sashes." 
Revelation15:7 Then one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives forever and ever." 
Revelation15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from His power. No one was able to enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed. 
Revelation16:1 Then I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, “Go, pour out the bowls of the wrath of God on the earth.”" 
Revelation16:2 The first went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and foul and grievous sores came on the men who had the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image." 
Revelation16:3 The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea. It became like the blood of a dead man, and every living creature in the sea died." 
Revelation16:4 The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water, and they became blood." 
Revelation16:5 Then I heard the angel of the waters saying: “You are righteous, O Lord, who is and was and who is to be, because You have judged these things." 
Revelation16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and You have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve!”" 
Revelation16:7 And I heard another from the altar saying: “Yes, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are Your judgments.”" 
Revelation16:8 The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and power was given to him to scorch men with fire." 
Revelation16:9 Men were scorched with great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God who has power over these plagues, and they did not repent and give Him glory." 
Revelation16:10 The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom was filled with darkness. They gnawed their tongues because of the anguish," 
Revelation16:11 and blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and did not repent of their deeds." 
Revelation16:12 The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great Euphrates River, and its water was dried up, to prepare the way for the kings from the East." 
Revelation16:13 Then I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet." 
Revelation16:14 For they are spirits of demons, performing signs, who go out to the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty." 
Revelation16:15 “Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments on, lest he walk naked and his shame be exposed.”" 
Revelation16:16 They gathered them together to the place which in Hebrew is called Armageddon. 
Revelation16:17 The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, “It is done!”" 
Revelation16:18 And there were noises and thundering and lightning and a great earthquake, such a mighty and great earthquake, as had never occurred since men were on the earth." 
Revelation16:19 The great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the Great was remembered before God, to give to her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of His wrath." 
Revelation16:20 Every island fled away, and the mountains were not found." 
Revelation16:21 Great hail, about the weight of a hundred pounds, fell from heaven upon man. Men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, because that plague was so severe." 
Revelation17:1 One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and talked with me, saying to me, “Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who sits on many waters," 
Revelation17:2 with whom the kings of the earth committed adultery, and the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her sexual immorality.”" 
Revelation17:3 Then he carried me away in the Spirit into the wilderness. I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast which was full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns." 
Revelation17:4 The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the filth of her sexual immorality." 
Revelation17:5 On her forehead a name was written: mystery***, babylon the great***, the mother of prostitutes***and of the abominations***of the earth***." 
Revelation17:6 I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her, I marveled greatly." 
Revelation17:7 Then the angel said to me, “Why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns." 
Revelation17:8 The beast, which you saw, was, and is not, and is to ascend out of the bottomless pit and go to destruction. Those who dwell on the earth whose names are not written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world will marvel when they see the beast that was, and is not, and is to come." 
Revelation17:9 “Here is the mind which has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits. 
Revelation17:10 They are also seven kings. Five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he must remain a little while." 
Revelation17:11 Concerning the beast who was, and is not, he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and is going to destruction." 
Revelation17:12 “The ten horns which you saw are ten kings who have received no kingdom yet, but they will receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast." 
Revelation17:13 These are of one mind and will give their power and authority to the beast. 
Revelation17:14 These will wage war with the Lamb, but the Lamb will overcome them, for He is Lord of lords and King of kings. Those who are with Him are called and chosen and faithful.”" 
Revelation17:15 Then he said to me, “The waters which you saw, where the prostitute sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues." 
Revelation17:16 These ten horns and the beast which you saw will hate the prostitute; they will make her desolate and naked, and devour her flesh, and burn her with fire." 
Revelation17:17 For God has put in their hearts to fulfill His will, and to be of one mind, and to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled." 
Revelation17:18 The woman whom you saw is that great city, which reigns over the kings of the earth.”" 
Revelation18:1 After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was illuminated with his glory." 
Revelation18:2 He cried out mightily with a loud voice, saying: “ ‘Fallen! Fallen is Babylon the Great!’ She has become a dwelling place of demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, and a haunt for every unclean and hateful bird." 
Revelation18:3 For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality, the kings of the earth have committed adultery with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich through the abundance of her luxury.”" 
Revelation18:4 Then I heard another voice from heaven saying: “ ‘Come out of her, my people,’ lest you partake in her sins, and lest you receive her plagues." 
Revelation18:5 For her sins have reached up to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities." 
Revelation18:6 Render to her as she has rendered to you, and repay her double for her deeds; in the cup which she has mixed, mix a double portion for her." 
Revelation18:7 To the extent that she glorified herself and lived luxuriously, so give her torment and sorrow; for in her heart she says, ‘I sit as a queen, and am no widow, and will see no sorrow.’" 
Revelation18:8 Therefore her plagues will come in one day — death and mourning and famine. And she will be utterly burned with fire, for strong is the Lord God who judges her." 
Revelation18:9 “The kings of the earth, who have committed adultery and lived luxuriously with her, will weep and mourn over her when they see the smoke of her burning." 
Revelation18:10 Standing far off for the fear of her torment, they will say: ‘Alas, alas for that great city, that mighty city, Babylon! In one hour your judgment has come.’" 
Revelation18:11 “The merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise any more:" 
Revelation18:12 the merchandise of gold, silver, precious stones and pearls, fine linen, purple, silk and scarlet, all kinds of scented wood, all artifacts of ivory, all merchandise of costly wood, bronze, iron, and marble;" 
Revelation18:13 and cinnamon and incense, myrrh and frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour and wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves and lives of men." 
Revelation18:14 ‘The fruit that your soul lusted after has departed from you, and all the things which are graceful and exquisite have departed from you, and you shall never find them.’" 
Revelation18:15 “The merchants of these things, who gained wealth by her, will stand far off for fear of her torment, weeping and wailing," 
Revelation18:16 and saying: ‘Alas, alas, that great city, that was arrayed in fine linen, in purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls!" 
Revelation18:17 In one hour such great riches came to nothing!’ “All sea captains and seafaring men, sailors and all who trade by sea, stood far off," 
Revelation18:18 and cried out when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, ‘What city is like this great city?’" 
Revelation18:19 They threw dust on their heads and cried out, weeping and wailing, and saying: ‘Alas, alas, that great city, in which all who had ships in the sea grew rich from her wealth! In one hour she has been laid waste!’" 
Revelation18:20 “Rejoice over her, O heaven and saints and apostles and prophets, for God has avenged you against her.”" 
Revelation18:21 Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying: “With such violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more." 
Revelation18:22 The sound of harpists and musicians, flute players and trumpeters, shall not be heard in you any more. No craftsman of any craft shall be found in you any more, and the sound of a millstone shall not be heard in you any more." 
Revelation18:23 The light of a lamp shall shine in you no more, and the voice of bridegroom and of bride shall be heard in you no more. For your merchants were the great men of the earth, and all nations were deceived by your sorcery." 
Revelation18:24 In her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who were slain on the earth.” 
Revelation19:1 After these things I heard a great sound of many people in heaven, shouting: “Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God!" 
Revelation19:2 For true and righteous are His judgments, because He has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality; and He has avenged on her the blood of His servants.”" 
Revelation19:3 Again they said: “Alleluia! Her smoke rises forever and ever.” 
Revelation19:4 The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God who sat on the throne, saying: “Amen! Alleluia!”" 
Revelation19:5 Then a voice came from the throne, saying: “Praise our God, all you His servants and those who fear Him, both small and great!”" 
Revelation19:6 Then I heard something like the sound like a great multitude, as the sound of many waters and as the sound of mighty thunderings, saying: “Alleluia! For the Lord God Almighty reigns!" 
Revelation19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice and give Him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and His wife has made herself ready." 
Revelation19:8 It was granted her to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white.” Fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints." 
Revelation19:9 Then he said to me, “Write: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.” And he said to me, “These are the true sayings of God.”" 
Revelation19:10 I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me, “See that you not do that. I am your fellow servant, and of your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For it is the spirit of prophecy that bears witness to Jesus.”" 
Revelation19:11 I saw heaven opened. And behold, there was a white horse. He who sat on it is called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and wages war." 
Revelation19:12 His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on His head are many crowns. He has a name written, that no one knows but He Himself." 
Revelation19:13 He is clothed with a robe dipped in blood. His name is called The Word of God. 
Revelation19:14 The armies in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, followed Him on white horses." 
Revelation19:15 Out of His mouth proceeds a sharp sword, with which He may strike the nations. “He shall rule them with an iron scepter.” He treads the winepress of the fury and wrath of God the Almighty." 
Revelation19:16 On His robe and on His thigh He has a name written: king of kings***and lord of lords***. 
Revelation19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice to all the birds flying in the midst of heaven, “Come and gather for the supper of the great God," 
Revelation19:18 to eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of commanders, the flesh of strong men, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great!”" 
Revelation19:19 Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies gathered to wage war against Him who sat on the horse and against His army. 
Revelation19:20 But the beast was captured and with him the false prophet who worked signs in his presence, by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with brimstone." 
Revelation19:21 The remnant were slain with the sword which proceeded out of the mouth of Him who sat on the horse. And all the birds gorged themselves with their flesh. 
Revelation20:1 And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand." 
Revelation20:2 He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for one thousand years." 
Revelation20:3 He cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal on him, that he should deceive the nations no more, until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be set free for a little while." 
Revelation20:4 I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and the authority to judge was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness of Jesus and for the word of God. They had not worshipped the beast or his image, and had not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for one thousand years." 
Revelation20:5 The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. 
Revelation20:6 Blessed and holy is he who takes part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with Him one thousand years." 
Revelation20:7 When the thousand years are ended, Satan will be set free from his prison" 
Revelation20:8 and will go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea." 
Revelation20:9 They traveled the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. But fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them. 
Revelation20:10 The devil, who deceived them, was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet were. They will be tormented day and night forever and ever." 
Revelation20:11 Then I saw a great white throne and Him who was seated on it. From His face the earth and the heavens fled away, and no place was found for them." 
Revelation20:12 And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God. Books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the Book of Life. The dead were judged according to their works as recorded in the books." 
Revelation20:13 The sea gave up the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades delivered up the dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one by his works." 
Revelation20:14 Then Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. 
Revelation20:15 Anyone whose name was not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire. 
Revelation21:1 Then I saw “a new heaven and a new earth.” For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no more sea." 
Revelation21:2 I, John, saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." 
Revelation21:2 I, John, saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." 
Revelation21:3 And I heard a loud voice from heaven, saying, “Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them. They shall be His people, and God Himself will be with them and be their God." 
Revelation21:4 ‘God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death.’ Neither shall there be any more sorrow nor crying nor pain, for the former things have passed away.”" 
Revelation21:5 He who was seated on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” Then He said to me, “Write, for these words are faithful and true.”" 
Revelation21:6 He said to me, “It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give of the spring of the water of life to him who thirsts." 
Revelation21:7 He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son." 
Revelation21:8 But the cowardly, the unbelieving, the abominable, the murderers, the sexually immoral, the sorcerers, the idolaters, and all liars shall have their portion in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone. This is the second death.”" 
Revelation21:9 One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came to me and said to me, “Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”" 
Revelation21:10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the Holy City, Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God," 
Revelation21:11 having the glory of God, her light like a most precious jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal." 
Revelation21:12 It had a great, high wall, with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the Israelites were written:" 
Revelation21:13 three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three gates on the south, and three gates on the west." 
Revelation21:14 The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb." 
Revelation21:15 He who talked with me had a golden rod to measure the city and its gates and wall. 
Revelation21:16 The city lies as a square, its length as long as its width. He measured the city with the rod: one thousand four hundred miles. Its length and breadth and height are equal." 
Revelation21:17 He then measured its wall: two hundred feet by the measurement of a man, that is, of an angel." 
Revelation21:18 The wall was built of jasper and the city was pure gold, as clear as glass." 
Revelation21:19 The foundations of the wall of the city were decorated with all kinds of precious jewels. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;" 
Revelation21:20 the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst." 
Revelation21:21 The twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass." 
Revelation21:22 I saw no temple in the city, for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple." 
Revelation21:23 The city has no need of sun or moon to shine in it, for the glory of God is its light, and its lamp is the Lamb." 
Revelation21:24 And the nations of those who are saved shall walk in its light, and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honor into it." 
Revelation21:25 Its gates shall never be shut by day, for there shall be no night there." 
Revelation21:26 They shall bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations. 
Revelation21:27 No unclean thing shall ever enter it, nor shall anyone who commits abomination or falsehood, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb’s Book of Life." 
Revelation22:1 Then he showed me a pure river of the water of life, clear as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb" 
Revelation22:2 in the middle of its street. On each side of the river was the tree of life, which bore twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations." 
Revelation22:3 There shall be no more curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and His servants shall serve Him." 
Revelation22:4 They shall see His face, and His name shall be on their foreheads." 
Revelation22:5 Night shall be no more. They need no lamp nor the light of the sun, for the Lord God will give them light. And they shall reign forever and ever." 
Revelation22:6 The angel said to me, “These words are faithful and true. The Lord God of the holy prophets sent His angel to show to His servants the things which must soon take place.”" 
Revelation22:7 “Behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”" 
Revelation22:8 I, John, am he who saw and heard these things. When I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things." 
Revelation22:8 I, John, am he who saw and heard these things. When I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things." 
Revelation22:9 But he said to me, “See that you not do that. For I am your fellow servant, and of your brothers the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book. Worship God!”" 
Revelation22:10 Then he said to me, “Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand." 
Revelation22:11 He who is unjust, let him be unjust still. He who is filthy, let him be filthy still. He who is righteous, let him be righteous still. He who is holy, let him be holy still.”" 
Revelation22:12 “Behold, I am coming soon! My reward is with Me to give to each one according to his work." 
Revelation22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End, the First and the Last.”" 
Revelation22:14 Blessed are those who do His commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city." 
Revelation22:15 Outside are dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters and everyone who loves and practices a lie. 
Revelation22:16 “I, Jesus, have sent My angel to you with this testimony for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the Bright and Morning Star.”" 
Revelation22:17 The Spirit and the bride say, “Come.” Let him who hears say, “Come.” Let him who is thirsty come. Let him who desires take the water of life freely." 
Revelation22:18 I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone adds to these things, God shall add to him the plagues that are written in this book." 
Revelation22:19 And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the Book of Life and out of the Holy City and out of the things which are written in this book." 
Revelation22:20 He who testifies to these things says, “Surely I am coming soon.” Amen. Even so, come Lord Jesus!" 
