Genesis39:17 And she told him according to these words saying: This Hebrews' servant which thou hast brought unto us came in to me to do me shame. 
Genesis40:15 for I was stolen out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also have I done nothing at all wherefore they should have put me into this dungeon." 
Genesis43:32 And they prepared for him by himself, and for them by them selves, and for the Egyptians which ate with him by them selves, because the Egyptians may not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians." 
Exodus1:15 And the king of Egypt said unto the midwives of the Hebrews' women, of which the one's name was Sephora and the other Phua:" 
Exodus1:16 when ye midwife the women of the Hebrews and see in the birth time that it is a boy, kill it. But if it be a maid, let it live." 
Exodus1:19 And the midwives answered Pharao, that the Hebrews' women were not as the women of Egypt: but were sturdy women, and were delivered yer the midwives came at them." 
Exodus2:13 And he went out another day: and behold, two Hebrews strove together. And he said unto him that did the wrong: wherefore smitest thou thine neighbour?" 
Exodus3:18 If it come to pass that they hear thy voice, then go, both thou and the elders of Israel unto the king of Egypt, and say unto him: The LORD God of the Hebrews hath met with us: Let us go therefore three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God." 
Exodus5:3 I know not the LORD, neither will let Israel go. And they said: the God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go (we pray thee) three days' journey into the desert, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God: lest he smite us either with pestilence or with sword." 
Exodus7:16 And say unto him: the LORD God of the Hebrews hath sent me unto thee saying: let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness: but hitherto thou wouldest not hear." 
Exodus9:1 And the LORD said unto Moses: go unto Pharao and tell him, thus sayeth the LORD God of the Hebrews: send out my people that they may serve me." 
Exodus9:13 And the LORD said unto Moses: rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharao and tell him, thus sayeth the LORD God of the Hebrews: Let my people go, that they may serve me," 
Exodus10:3 Then Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharao, and said unto him: Thus sayeth the LORD God of the Hebrews: how long shall it be, or thou wilt submit thyself unto me? Let my people go that they may serve me." 
1Samuel4:6 When the Philistines heard the noise of the shout they said: what meaneth the sound of this mighty shout in the host of the Hebrews? And they understood how that the ark of the LORD was come into the host. 
1Samuel4:9 Be strong and quite yourselves like men, ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Be men therefore and fight." 
1Samuel13:3 And Jonathas slew the Philistines in an hold they had in Gabaah, and it came to the Philistines' ears. And Saul caused the trumpet to be blown thorowout all the land saying: let the Hebrews hear." 
1Samuel13:7 And the Hebrews went over Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people that followed him were astonied." 
1Samuel13:19 But there was no smith thorowout the land of Israel. For the Philistines thought that then the Hebrews might make them swords or spears. 
1Samuel14:11 And when they had both shewed themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines, the Philistines said: see, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they had hid themselves in." 
1Samuel14:21 Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, and were come with them in all parts of the host, they turned to Israel that was with Saul and Jonathas." 
1Samuel29:3 Then said the lords of the Philistines: what are yonder Hebrews? And Achis said unto the lords of the Philistines: Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me days or years, and I have found no fault in him since he fled unto me unto this day." 
1Kings11:41 And the rest of the Acts of Salomon and all that he did, and his wisdom are written in the book of the Acts of Salomon." 
1Kings14:29 The rest of the Acts of king Rehoboam and all he did, are written in the book of Acts of the kings of Juda." 
1Kings16:20 The rest of the Acts of Zamri and the treason that he wrought, are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel." 
1Kings22:53 And he served Baal and bowed himself to him and angered the LORD God of Israel, in all things, as did his father. [The end of the third book of the kings as the Latinists reckon, the Hebrews call it the first of the kings.]" 
2Kings25:30 And a continual portion was assigned him of the king, day by day as long as he lived. [The end of the fourth book of the kings, which after the Hebrews is seconde.]" 
1Chronicles16:8 Thank the LORD, call on his name, make his Acts known among the people." 
Esther8:11 wherein the king granted the Jews (in what cities soever they were) to gather them selves together, and to stand for their life, (To stand for their life is a manner of speaking familiar to the Hebrews, for that we say, to defend their lives, and shift them selves from the cruel persecution of their enemies) and for to root out, to slay and to destroy all the power of the people and land that would trouble them, with children and women, and to spoil their good" 
Job18:2 when will ye make an end of your words? Mark well, and consider, we will speak also." 
Job21:5 Mark me well, be abashed, and lay your hand upon your mouth." 
Job33:31 Mark well (O Job) and hear me: hold thee still until I have spoken. 
Psalms48:13 Mark well her walls, set up her houses, that it may be told them that come after." 
Haggai2:18 Consider then from this day forth and afore, namely, from the twenty fourth day of the ninth month, unto the day that the foundation of the LORD's temple was laid: Mark it well," 
Matthew1:1 This is the book of the generation of Jesus Christ the son of David, the son also of Abraham." 
Matthew1:2 Abraham begat Isaac: Isaac begat Jacob: Jacob begat Judas and his brethren: 
Matthew1:3 Judas begat Phares and Zaram of Thamar: Phares begat Esrom: Esrom begat Aram: 
Matthew1:4 Aram begat Aminadab: Aminadab begat Naasson: Naasson begat Salmon: 
Matthew1:5 Salmon begat Boos of Rahab: Boos begat Obed of Ruth: Obed begat Jesse: 
Matthew1:6 Jesse begat David the king: David the king begat Solomon, of her that was the wife of Ury:" 
Matthew1:7 Solomon begat Roboam: Roboam begat Abia: Abia begat Asa: 
Matthew1:8 Asa begat Josaphat: Josaphat begat Joram: Joram begat Osias: 
Matthew1:9 Osias begat Joatham: Joatham begat Athas: Athas begat Ezechias: 
Matthew1:10 Ezechias begat Manasses: Manasses begat Amon: Amon begat Josias: 
Matthew1:11 Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren about the time of the captivity of(they were carried away to) Babylon. 
Matthew1:12 (And) After they were led captive(brought) to Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel: Salathiel begat Zorobabel:" 
Matthew1:13 Zorobabel begat Abiud: Abiud begat Eliachim: Eliachim begat Azor: 
Matthew1:14 Azor begat Sadoc: Sadoc begat Achin: Achin begat Eliud: 
Matthew1:15 Eliud begat Eleasar: Eleasar begat Matthan: Matthan begat Jacob: 
Matthew1:16 Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom(which) was born that Jesus which(that) is called Christ." 
Matthew1:17 All the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations. And from David unto the captivity of Babylon, are fourteen generations. And from the captivity of Babylon unto Christ, are also fourteen generations." 
Matthew1:18 The birth of (Iesus) Christ was on this wise, when his mother Mary was married(betrouthed) unto Joseph, before they came to dwell together,(to geder) she was found with child by the holy ghost." 
Matthew1:19 Then her husband Joseph being a perfect man, and loth to defame(make an example of) her, was minded to put her away secretly." 
Matthew1:20 While he thus thought, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in sleep(a dream) saying: Joseph the son of David, fear not to take unto thee, Mary thy wife. For that which is conceived in her, is of the holy ghost." 
Matthew1:21 She shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus.(Lat. Iesu, Heb. Yesua) For he shall save his people from their sins." 
Matthew1:22 All this was done to fulfil that which was spoken of the Lord, by the prophet saying:" 
Matthew1:23 Behold a maid shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they(thou) shalt call his name Emmanuel, which is as much to say, by interpretation, as God with us." 
Matthew1:24 (And) Joseph as soon as he awoke out of sleep, did as the angel of the Lord bade him, and took his wife unto him," 
Matthew1:25 and knew her not, till she had brought forth her first son, and called his name Jesus." 
Matthew2:1 When Jesus was born in(at) Bethlehem a town of(in) Jury,(Iury) in the time of king Herod. Behold, there came wise men from the east(est) to Jerusalem" 
Matthew2:2 saying: Where is he that is born king of the Jews?(Iewes?) We have seen his star in the east,(est) and are come to worship him." 
Matthew2:3 Herod the king, after he had heard this,(When Herod the king had heard this, he) was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him," 
Matthew2:4 and he sent for(gathered) all the chief priests and scribes of the people, and demanded(asked) of them where Christ should be born." 
Matthew2:5 (And) They said unto him: in Bethlehem a town of Jury. For thus it is written by the prophet: 
Matthew2:6 And thou Bethlehem in the land of Jury, shalt not be the least as pertaining to(concerning) the princes of Juda. For out of thee shall come a(the) captain, which(that) shall govern my people Israel." 
Matthew2:7 Then Herod privily called the wise men, and diligently enquired of them, the time of the star that appeared." 
Matthew2:8 And sent them to Bethlehem saying: when ye be come thither(Go and) search diligently for the child. And when ye have found him bring me word, that I may come and worship him also." 
Matthew2:9 When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo the star which they saw in the east went before them, until(till) it came and stood over the place where the child was." 
Matthew2:10 When they saw the star, they were marvelously glad." 
Matthew2:11 And entered(went) into the house, and found the child with Mary his mother, and kneeled down and worshipped him, and opened their treasures, and offered unto him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh." 
Matthew2:12 And after they were warned in their sleep,(of God in a dream) that they should not go again to Herod, they returned into their own country another way." 
Matthew2:13 After that(when) they were departed, lo(behold) the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in his sleep(dream) saying: arise and take the child and his mother, and fly into Egypt, and abide there till I bring thee word. For Herod will seek the child to destroy him." 
Matthew2:14 Then he arose, and took the child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt," 
Matthew2:15 and was there unto the death of Herod, to fulfil that which was spoken of the Lord, by the prophet, which saith: out of Egypt have I called my son." 
Matthew2:16 Then Herod perceiving that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, as many as were two year old and under, according to the time which he had diligently searched out of the wise men." 
Matthew2:17 Then was fulfilled, that which was spoken by the prophet Jeremy, saying:" 
Matthew2:18 On the hills was a voice heard, mourning, weeping, and great lamentation. Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they were not." 
Matthew2:19 When Herod was dead, lo(behold) an angel of the Lord appeared (in a dream) unto Joseph in Egypt" 
Matthew2:20 saying: arise and take the child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel. For they are dead, which sought the child's death.(life.)" 
Matthew2:21 Then he arose up, and took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel." 
Matthew2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Jury, in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither. Notwithstanding after he was warned in his sleep,(of god in a dream) he turned aside into the parts of Galilee," 
Matthew2:23 and went and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, to fulfil, that which was spoken by the prophets: He shall be called of Nazareth.(a Nazarite.)" 
Matthew3:1 In those days John the Baptiser,(the Baptist) came and preached in the wilderness of Jury(Iewry)" 
Matthew3:1 In those days John the Baptiser,(the Baptist) came and preached in the wilderness of Jury(Iewry)" 
Matthew3:2 saying: repent,(Amende your selves) the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 
Matthew3:3 This is he of whom it is spoken by the prophet Isay,(Esai) which saith: The voice of a crier in wilderness, prepare the Lord's(Lordes) way, and make his paths straight." 
Matthew3:4 This John had his garment of camel's hair, and a girdle of a skin about his loins. His meat was locusts and wild honey." 
Matthew3:4 This John had his garment of camel's hair, and a girdle of a skin about his loins. His meat was locusts and wild honey." 
Matthew3:5 Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Jury,(Iewry) and all the region round about Jordan," 
Matthew3:6 and were baptised of him in Jordan, knowledging(confessing) their sins." 
Matthew3:7 When he saw many of the pharisees and of the sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them: O generation of vipers, who hath taught you to flee from the vengeance to come?" 
Matthew3:8 Bring forth therefore the fruits belonging to repentance. 
Matthew3:9 And see that ye once think not to say in yourselves, we have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you, that God is able of these stones, to raise up children unto Abraham." 
Matthew3:10 Even now is the axe put unto the root(rote) of the trees: so that every tree which bringeth not forth, good fruit, shall be(is) hewn down, and cast into the fire." 
Matthew3:11 I baptise you in water, in token of repentance, but he that cometh after me, is mightier than I: whose shoes I am not worthy to bear. He shall baptise you with the holy ghost, and with fire," 
Matthew3:12 which hath also his fan in his hand, and will purge his flour, and gather the wheat into his garner, and will burn the chaff with everlasting(unquenchable) fire." 
Matthew3:13 Then came Jesus from Galilee into(to) Jordan to(unto) John, for to be baptised of him." 
Matthew3:13 Then came Jesus from Galilee into(to) Jordan to(unto) John, for to be baptised of him." 
Matthew3:14 But John forbade him saying: I ought to be baptised of thee: and comest thou to me? 
Matthew3:14 But John forbade him saying: I ought to be baptised of thee: and comest thou to me? 
Matthew3:15 Jesus answered and said to him, let it be so now. For thus it becometh us, to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him." 
Matthew3:16 And Jesus as soon as he was baptised, came straight out of the water. And lo heaven was open unto(over) him: and he(John) saw the spirit of God descend like a dove, and light upon him." 
Matthew3:16 And Jesus as soon as he was baptised, came straight out of the water. And lo heaven was open unto(over) him: and he(John) saw the spirit of God descend like a dove, and light upon him." 
Matthew3:17 And lo there came a voice from heaven saying: this is my dear(is that my beloved) son, in whom is my delight." 
Matthew4:1 Then was Jesus led away of the spirit in to a desert,(wilderness) to be tempted of the devil." 
Matthew4:2 And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, at the last he was(afterward) an hungered." 
Matthew4:3 Then came until(to) him the tempter, and said: If thou be the son of God, command that these stones be made bread." 
Matthew4:4 He answered and said: It is written, man shall not live only by bread, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." 
Matthew4:5 Then the devil took him up into the holy city, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple," 
Matthew4:6 and said unto him: if thou be the son of God, cast thyself down. For it is written, he shall give his angels charge over thee, and with their hands they shall stey(hold) thee up, that thou dash not thy foot against a stone." 
Matthew4:7 (And) Jesus said to him, it is written also: thou shalt not tempt thy Lord God." 
Matthew4:8 The devil took him up again and led him into an exceeding high(hye) mountain, and shewed him all the kingdoms of the world, and the beauty of them,(all the glory of them)" 
Matthew4:9 and said unto(to) him: all these will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me." 
Matthew4:10 Then said Jesus unto him, avoid Satan. For it is written, thou shalt worship thy Lord God,(the Lord thy God) and him only, shalt thou serve." 
Matthew4:11 Then the devil left him, and lo(behold) the angels came and ministered unto him." 
Matthew4:12 When Jesus had heard that John was taken, he departed into Galilee," 
Matthew4:12 When Jesus had heard that John was taken, he departed into Galilee," 
Matthew4:13 and left Nazareth, and went and dwelt in Capernaum, which is a city upon the sea, in the coasts of Zabulon and Nephthalim," 
Matthew4:14 to fulfil that which was spoken by Esay the prophet, saying:" 
Matthew4:15 Behold the land of Zabulon and Nephthalim, the way of the sea beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles," 
Matthew4:16 the people which sat in darkness, saw great light. And to them which sat in the region and shadow of death, light is sprong.(begun to shine.)" 
Matthew4:17 From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say: Repent,(Amende youre selves) for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 
Matthew4:18 As Jesus walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brethren: Simon which was called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea (for they were fishers)" 
Matthew4:19 and he said unto them, follow me, and I will make you (to become) fishers of men." 
Matthew4:20 And they straightway left their nets, and followed him." 
Matthew4:21 And he went forth from thence, and saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother in the ship, with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and called them." 
Matthew4:21 And he went forth from thence, and saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother in the ship, with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and called them." 
Matthew4:21 And he went forth from thence, and saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother in the ship, with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and called them." 
Matthew4:22 And they without tarrying left the ship and their father and followed him. 
Matthew4:23 And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel(gospell) of the kingdom, and healing(healed) all manner of sickness, and all manner diseases among the people." 
Matthew4:24 And his fame spread abroad throughout all Syria. And they brought unto him all sick people, that were taken with divers diseases and gripings, and them that were possessed with devils, and those which were lunatic, and those that had the palsy. And he healed them." 
Matthew4:25 And there followed him a great number of people, from Galilee, and from the ten cities, and from Jerusalem, and from Jury,(Iewry) and from the regions that lie beyond Jordan." 
Matthew5:1 When he saw the people he went up into a mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came to him," 
Matthew5:2 and he opened his mouth,(mought) and taught them saying:" 
Matthew5:3 Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew5:4 Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. 
Matthew5:5 Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. 
Matthew5:6 Blessed are they which hunger and thirst for righteousness: for they shall be filled. 
Matthew5:7 Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. 
Matthew5:8 Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. 
Matthew5:9 Blessed are the maintainers of peace:(Blessed are the peacemakers,) for they shall be called the children of God." 
Matthew5:10 Blessed are they which suffer persecution for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew5:11 Blessed are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall falsely say all manner of evil sayings against you for my sake." 
Matthew5:12 Rejoice, and be glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before your days." 
Matthew5:13 Ye are the salt of the earth: but and if the salt be once unsavory,(have lost hir saltiness) what can be salted there with? It is thence forth good for nothing, but to be cast out at the doors, and that men tread it under feet.(and to be trodden under foot of men.)" 
Matthew5:14 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill, cannot be hid," 
Matthew5:15 neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it lighteth all them which(that) are in the house." 
Matthew5:16 See that(Let) your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your father which is in heaven." 
Matthew5:17 Ye shall not think,(Think not) that I am come to disannul(destroy) the law, other the prophets: no I am not come to disannul(destroy) them, but to fulfil them." 
Matthew5:18 For truly I say unto you, till heaven and earth perish, one jot, or one tittle of the law shall not scape, till all be fulfilled." 
Matthew5:19 Whosoever breaketh one of these least commandments, and teacheth men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall observe(observeth) and teach them,(teacheth) that person(the same) shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:20 For I say unto you except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and pharisees, ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:21 Ye have heard how it was said unto them of the old time: Thou shalt not kill. Whosoever shall kill,(killeth) shall be in danger of judgement." 
Matthew5:22 But I say unto you, whosoever is angry with his brother, shall be in danger of judgement. Whosoever shall say(sayeth) unto his brother raca, shall be in danger of a council. But whosoever say unto his brother(sayeth) thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire." 
Matthew5:23 Therefore when thou offerest thy gift at the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath anything against thee:" 
Matthew5:24 leave there thine offering before the altar, and go thy way first and reconcile thyself(be reconciled) to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift." 
Matthew5:25 Agree with thine adversary at once,(quickly) whiles thou art in the way with him, lest thine(that) adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the minister, and then thou be cast into prison." 
Matthew5:26 (Verily) I say unto thee verily: thou shalt not come out thence till thou have paid the utmost farthing. 
Matthew5:27 Ye have heard how it was said to them of old time, thou shalt not commit advoutry." 
Matthew5:28 But I say unto you, that whosoever eyeth(looketh on) a wife, lusting after her, hath committed advoutry with her already in his heart." 
Matthew5:29 Wherefore if thy right eye offend thee, pluck him out, and cast him from thee. Better it is for thee that one of thy members perish than that thy whole body should be cast into hell." 
Matthew5:30 Also if thy right hand offend thee, cut him off and cast him from thee. Better it is that one of thy members perish, than that all thy body should, be cast in to hell." 
Matthew5:31 It is said, whosoever put away his wife, let him give her a testimonial of her(testimony also of the) divorcement." 
Matthew5:32 But I say unto you: whosoever put away his wife, (except it be for fornication) causeth her to break matrimony. And whosoever marrieth her that is divorced, breaketh wedlock." 
Matthew5:33 Again ye have heard, how it was said to them of old time, thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform thine oath to God." 
Matthew5:34 But I say unto you swear not at all: neither by heaven, for it is God's seat:(Goddes seat)" 
Matthew5:35 nor yet by the earth, for it is his footstool: Neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of that great King:" 
Matthew5:36 neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one white hair, or black:" 
Matthew5:37 But your communication shall be, yea, yea: nay, nay. For whatsoever is more than that, cometh of evil." 
Matthew5:38 Ye have heard how it is said, an eye for an eye: a tooth for a tooth." 
Matthew5:39 But I say to you, that ye withstand(resist) not wrong. But if a man(whosoever) give thee a blow on thy right cheek, turn to him the other." 
Matthew5:40 And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take (away) thy coat from thee, let him have thy cloak also." 
Matthew5:41 And whosoever will compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain." 
Matthew5:42 Give to him that asketh: and from him that would borrow turn not away. 
Matthew5:43 Ye have heard how it is said: thou shalt love thine neighbor, and hate thine enemy." 
Matthew5:44 But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which do you wrong, and persecute you," 
Matthew5:45 that ye may be the children of your heavenly father:(that is in heaven:) for he maketh his sun to arise, on the evil, and on the good, and sendeth his rain on the just and unjust." 
Matthew5:46 For if ye shall love them, which love you: what reward shall ye have? Do not the publicans even so?" 
Matthew5:47 And if ye be friendly to your brethren only: what singular thing do ye? Do not the publicans likewise? 
Matthew5:48 Ye shall therefore be perfect, even as your heavenly father(which is in heaven) is perfect." 
Matthew6:1 Take heed to your alms. That ye give it not in the sight of men, to the intent that ye would be seen of them. Or else ye get no reward of your father (which is) in heaven." 
Matthew6:2 Whensoever therefore thou givest thine alms, thou shalt not make a trumpet to be blown before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues, and in the streets, for to be praised of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward." 
Matthew6:3 But when thou doest thine alms, let not thy left hand know, what thy right hand doth," 
Matthew6:4 that thine alms may be secret, and thy father which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly." 
Matthew6:5 And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues, and in the corners of the streets, because they would be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward." 
Matthew6:6 But when thou prayest, enter into thy chamber, and shut thy door to thee, and pray to thy father which is in secret: and thy father which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly." 
Matthew6:7 But(And) when ye pray, babble not much, as the gentiles(heathen) do: for they think that they shall be heard, for their much babbling's sake." 
Matthew6:8 Be ye not like them therefore. For your father knoweth whereof ye have need, before ye ask of him." 
Matthew6:9 After this manner therefore pray ye. O our father, which art in heaven hallowed be thy name." 
Matthew6:10 Let thy kingdom come. Thy will be fulfilled, as well in earth, as it is in heaven." 
Matthew6:11 Give us this day our daily bread. 
Matthew6:12 And forgive us our trespasses,(debts) even as we forgive them which trespass us.(our trespassers.)(our debtors)" 
Matthew6:13 (And) Lead us not in to temptation: but deliver us from evil, For thine is the kingdom and the power, and the glory for ever. Amen." 
Matthew6:14 For and if ye shall forgive other men their trespasses, your (heavenly) father in heaven shall also forgive you. (your trespasses)" 
Matthew6:15 But and ye will not forgive men their trespasses, no more shall, your father forgive your trespasses." 
Matthew6:16 Moreover when ye fast, be not sad as the hypocrites are. For they disfigure their faces, that it(they) might appear unto men(be seen of men how) that they fast. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward." 
Matthew6:17 But thou when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face," 
Matthew6:18 that it appear not unto men how that thou fastest: but unto thy father which is in secret: and thy father which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly." 
Matthew6:19 (See that ye) Gather not treasure together on(upon the) earth, where rust and moths corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal." 
Matthew6:20 But gather ye treasures together in heaven, where neither rust, nor yet moths corrupt: and where thieves neither break up, nor yet steal." 
Matthew6:21 For wheresoever your treasure is, there are your hearts also.(there will your hears be also.)" 
Matthew6:22 The light of the body is thine eye. Wherefore if thine eye be single, all thy body is(all body shall be) full of light." 
Matthew6:23 But and if thine eye be wicked, then is all thy body(shall be) full of darkness. Wherefore if the light that is in thee, be darkness: how great is that darkness?" 
Matthew6:24 No man can serve two masters. For either he shall hate the one, and love the other: or else he shall lean to the one, and despise that(the) other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon." 
Matthew6:25 Therefore I say unto you, be not careful(carefull) for your life what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body, what raiment ye shall wear.(put on.) Is not the life more worth than meat? and the body more of value than raiment?" 
Matthew6:26 Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither reap, nor yet carry into the barns, and yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not (much) better than they?" 
Matthew6:27 Which of you (though he took thought therefore) could put one cubit unto his stature? 
Matthew6:28 And why care ye then for raiment? Behold(Consider) the lilies of the field, how they grow. They labor not, neither spin." 
Matthew6:29 And yet for all that I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his royalty, was not arrayed like unto one of these." 
Matthew6:30 Wherefore if God so clothe the grass, which is today in the field, and tomorrow shall be cast into the furnace: shall he not much more do the same unto you, O ye of little faith?" 
Matthew6:31 Therefore take no thought saying: what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed?" 
Matthew6:32 (After all these things seek the gentiles) For your heavenly father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. 
Matthew6:33 But rather seek ye first the kingdom of heaven, and the righteousness thereof, and all these things shall be ministered unto you." 
Matthew6:34 Care not therefore for the day following.(morrow) For the day following(morrow) shall care for itself. Each days trouble is sufficient for the same self day.(Care not therefore then for the morrow, but let the morrow care of itself: for the day present hath ever enough of his own travail.)" 
Matthew7:1 Judge not lest ye be judged.(Judge not, that ye be not judged.) (comdemn not and ye shall not and be condemned)" 
Matthew7:2 For as ye judge, so shall ye be judged. And with what measure ye mete, with the same shall it be measured to you again." 
Matthew7:3 Why seest thou a mote in thy brother's eye, and perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?" 
Matthew7:4 Or why sayest thou to thy brother: (Brother) suffer me to pluck out a(the) mote out of thine eye, and behold a beam is in thine own eye." 
Matthew7:5 Hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pluck out the mote out of thy brother's eye." 
Matthew7:6 Give not that which is holy to dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they tread them under their feet, and the other turn again and all to rent you." 
Matthew7:7 Ask and it shall be given you: Seek and ye shall find, Knock and it shall be opened unto you." 
Matthew7:8 For whosoever asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened." 
Matthew7:9 Is there any man among you which would proffer his son a stone if he asked him bread?(Is there any man among you which if his son asked him bread, would offer him a stone?)" 
Matthew7:10 Or if he asked fish, would he proffer him a serpent?" 
Matthew7:11 If ye then which are evil, can give to your children good gifts: how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things, to them that ask of him?" 
Matthew7:12 Therefore whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, even so do ye to them. This is the law and the prophets." 
Matthew7:13 Enter in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction: and many there be, which go in thereat." 
Matthew7:14 For(But) strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life: and few there be, that find it." 
Matthew7:15 Beware of false prophets, which come to you, in sheeps' clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves." 
Matthew7:16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns? Or figs of briars?(thistles) 
Matthew7:17 Even so every good tree, bringeth forth good fruit. But a corrupt tree, bringeth forth evil fruit." 
Matthew7:18 A good tree cannot bring forth bad fruit: nor yet a bad tree can bring forth good fruit. 
Matthew7:19 Every tree, that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be hewn down, and cast into the fire." 
Matthew7:20 Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 
Matthew7:21 Not all they that say unto me, master, master,(Lord, Lord) shall enter in to the kingdom of heaven: but he that fulfilleth(doeth) my father's will which is in heaven. (He shall enter in to the kingdom of heaven)" 
Matthew7:22 Many will say to me in that day, Master, master,(Lord, Lord) have we not in thy name prophesied? and in thy name have we not cast out devils? and in thy name have we not done many miracles.(And in thy name have cast out devils? And in thy name have done many miracles?)" 
Matthew7:23 And then will I knowledge unto them, that I never knew them. Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity." 
Matthew7:24 Whosoever heareth of me these sayings, and doeth the same, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house on a rock:" 
Matthew7:25 and abundance of rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that same house, and it was not overthrown(fell not) because it was grounded on the rock." 
Matthew7:26 And whosoever heareth of me these sayings, and doth(them) not the same, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand," 
Matthew7:27 and abundance of rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it was overthrown,(fell) and great was the fall of it." 
Matthew7:28 And it came to pass, that when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonied at his doctrine." 
Matthew7:29 For he taught them as one having power, and not as the scribes. (of them, and the Pharises)" 
Matthew8:1 When Jesus(he) was come down from the mountain, much people followed him." 
Matthew8:2 And lo, there came a leper, and worshipped him saying: Master, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean." 
Matthew8:3 He(Iesu) put forth his hand and touched him saying: I will, be (thou) clean, and immediately his leprosy was cleansed." 
Matthew8:4 And Jesus said unto him: See thou tell no man, but go and shew thyself to the priest and offer the gift, that Moses commanded to be offered in witness to them." 
Matthew8:5 When Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a certain Centurion,(Captain)" 
Matthew8:6 beseeching(and besought) him, and saying: Master, my servant lieth sick at home of the palsy, and is grievously pained." 
Matthew8:7 And Jesus said unto him: I will come and cure(heal) him. 
Matthew8:8 The Centurion answered and said: Sir, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under the roof of my house,(my roof) but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed." 
Matthew8:9 For I also myself am a man under power,(subject to the authority of another) and have soldiers under me, and I say to one, go, and he goeth: and to another, come, and he cometh: and to my servant, do this, and he doeth it." 
Matthew8:10 When Jesus heard these sayings:(that) he marveled, and said to them that followed him: Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith: no, not in Israel." 
Matthew8:11 I say therefore unto you, that many shall come from the east and west, and shall rest with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven:" 
Matthew8:12 and the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into the utmost(utter) darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 
Matthew8:13 Then Jesus said unto the Centurion, go thy way, and as thou believed(believest) so be it unto thee. And his servant was healed that same(the self) hour." 
Matthew8:14 And (then) Jesus went to Peter's house, and saw his wife's mother lying sick of a fever," 
Matthew8:15 and he touched her hand, and the fever left her: and she arose, and ministered unto them." 
Matthew8:16 When the even was come they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all that were sick," 
Matthew8:17 to fulfil that which was spoken by Esay the prophet saying: he took on him our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses." 
Matthew8:18 When Jesus saw much people about him, he commanded to go over the water." 
Matthew8:19 And there came a scribe and said unto him: Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest." 
Matthew8:20 And Jesus said unto him: the foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the son of the man hath not whereon to lay(rest) his head." 
Matthew8:21 Another that was one of his Disciples said unto him: Master suffer me first, to go and bury my father." 
Matthew8:22 But Jesus said unto him: follow me, and let the dead bury their dead." 
Matthew8:23 And he entered into a ship, and his Disciples followed him." 
Matthew8:24 And lo(behold) there arose a great storm(tempest) in the sea, insomuch,(in so much) that the ship was hid(covered) with waves, and he was asleep." 
Matthew8:25 And his Disciples came unto him, and awoke him, saying: Master, save us, we perish." 
Matthew8:26 And he said unto them: Why are ye fearful, O ye endowed with(of) little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there followed a great calm." 
Matthew8:27 And (the) men marveled and said: What man is this, that both winds and sea obey him?" 
Matthew8:28 And when he was come to the other side, into the country of the Gergesites, there met him two possessed of devils, which came out of the graves, and were out of measure fierce, so that no man might go by that way." 
Matthew8:29 And lo(behold) they cried out saying: O Jesu the son of God, what have we to do with thee? Art thou come hither to torment us before the time be come?" 
Matthew8:30 (And) There was a good way off from them a great herd of swine feeding. 
Matthew8:31 Then the devils besought him saying: if thou cast us out, suffer us to go our way into the herd of swine." 
Matthew8:32 And he said unto them: go your ways. Then went they out, and departed into the herd of swine. And lo, all the(behold the whole) herd of swine was carried with violence headlong into the sea, and perished in the water." 
Matthew8:33 Then the herdmen, fled and went their ways into the city, and told everything, and what had fortuned unto them that were possessed of the devils." 
Matthew8:34 And lo,(behold) all the city came out, and met Jesus. And when they saw him they besought him, to depart out of their coasts." 
Matthew9:1 And(Then) he entered into a ship: and passed over and came into his own city. 
Matthew9:2 And lo, they brought unto him a man sick of the palsy, lying in his bed. And when Jesus saw their faith,(the faith of them) he said to the sick of the palsy: son be of good cheer, thy sins be forgiven thee." 
Matthew9:3 And lo(behold) certain of the scribes said in themselves, he(this man) blasphemeth." 
Matthew9:4 And when Jesus saw their thoughts, he said: Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts?" 
Matthew9:5 Whether is easier to say, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say: arise and walk?" 
Matthew9:6 That ye may know, that the son of man hath power to forgive sins in earth, then said he unto the sick of the palsy: arise, take up thy bed, and go home to thine house." 
Matthew9:7 And he arose and departed to his (own) house. 
Matthew9:8 The people that saw it,(And when the people saw it, they) marveled and glorified God, which had given such power to men." 
Matthew9:9 And as Jesus passed forth from thence he saw a man sit at the receipt(a receiving) of custom named Matthew, and said to him: Follow me. And he arose and followed him." 
Matthew9:10 And it came to pass, that Jesus(as he) sat at meat in his(the) house. And lo,(behold) many publicans and sinners, came and sat down also with Jesus, and his disciples." 
Matthew9:11 When the pharisees had perceived(saw) that, they said unto his disciples: why eateth your master with publicans and sinners?" 
Matthew9:12 When Jesus heard that, he said unto them: The whole need not the physician, but they that are sick." 
Matthew9:13 Go and learn, what that meaneth: I have pleasure in mercy, and not in offering. For I am not come to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance." 
Matthew9:14 Then came the disciples of John to him, saying: why do we and the pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not?" 
Matthew9:14 Then came the disciples of John to him, saying: why do we and the pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not?" 
Matthew9:15 And Jesus said unto them: can the wedding children mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The time will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast." 
Matthew9:16 No man pieceth an old garment with a piece of new cloth. For then taketh he away the piece again from the garment, and the rent is made worse.(greater.)" 
Matthew9:17 Neither do men put new wine, into old vessels: for then the vessels break, and the wine runneth out, and the vessels perish. But they pour new wine into new vessels, and so are both saved together." 
Matthew9:18 While he thus spake unto them, lo,(behold) there came a certain ruler, and worshipped him saying: my daughter is dead already,(even now deceased) but come, and lay thy hand on her, and she shall live." 
Matthew9:19 And Jesus arose and followed him, with his disciples." 
Matthew9:20 And behold, a woman which was diseased with an issue of blood twelve year, came behind him and touched the hem of his vesture." 
Matthew9:21 For she said in herself: If I may touch but even his vesture only I shall be safe. 
Matthew9:22 (Then) Jesus turned him about, and beheld her, saying: Daughter be of good comfort, thy faith hath made thee safe. And she was made whole even that same hour." 
Matthew9:23 And when Jesus came into the ruler's house, and saw the minstrels and the people wondering,(raging)" 
Matthew9:24 he said unto them: Get you hence, for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn." 
Matthew9:25 As soon as the people were put forth adoors, he went in and took her by the hand, (and said: damsel, arise) and the maid arose." 
Matthew9:26 And this was noised throughout all that land. 
Matthew9:27 And as Jesus departed thence, two blind men followed him crying, and saying: O thou son of David, have mercy on us." 
Matthew9:28 And when he was come into the house,(home) the blind came to him. And Jesus said unto them believe ye that I am able to do this? (And) They said unto him: yea Master.(yea Lord.)" 
Matthew9:29 Then touched he their eyes saying: according to your faith, be it unto you." 
Matthew9:30 And their eyes were opened. And he(Iesu) charged them, saying: See that no man know of it." 
Matthew9:31 But they as soon as they were departed, spread abroad his name through out all the land." 
Matthew9:32 As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed of a devil." 
Matthew9:33 And as soon as the devil was cast out, the dumb spake. And the people marveled, saying: it(was) never so appeared(seen) in Israel." 
Matthew9:34 But the pharisees said: He casteth out devils, by the power of the chief devil." 
Matthew9:35 And Jesus went about all cities and towns, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel(glad tidings) of the kingdom. And healing all manner sickness and disease among the people." 
Matthew9:36 But when he saw the people, he had pity(compassion) on them, because they were pined away, and scattered abroad even as sheep, having no shepherd." 
Matthew9:37 Then said he to his disciples: the harvest is great, but the laborers are few." 
Matthew9:38 Wherefore pray the harvest Lord,(Lord of the harvest) to send forth laborers into his harvest." 
Matthew10:1 And he called his twelve disciples unto him, and gave them power against(over) unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sicknesses, and all manner of diseases." 
Matthew10:2 The names of the twelve apostles are these. The first Simon which is called(also) Peter: and Andrew his brother. James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother." 
Matthew10:2 The names of the twelve apostles are these. The first Simon which is called(also) Peter: and Andrew his brother. James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother." 
Matthew10:2 The names of the twelve apostles are these. The first Simon which is called(also) Peter: and Andrew his brother. James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother." 
Matthew10:3 Philip and Bartholomew. Thomas and Matthew the publican. James the son of Alphe and Lebbeus, otherwise called Thaddeus." 
Matthew10:3 Philip and Bartholomew. Thomas and Matthew the publican. James the son of Alphe and Lebbeus, otherwise called Thaddeus." 
Matthew10:4 Simon of Chane, and Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him." 
Matthew10:5 These twelve sent Jesus,(did Iesus send) and commanded them saying: Go not into the ways that lead to the gentiles, and in to the cities of the Samaritans enter ye not:" 
Matthew10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
Matthew10:7 Go and preach saying: how(that) the kingdom of heaven is at hand. 
Matthew10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out the devils. Freely ye have received, freely give again." 
Matthew10:9 Possess not gold, nor silver, neither(nor) brass in your girdles," 
Matthew10:10 nor yet scrip towards your journey. Neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet a rod:(staff.) for the workman is worthy to have his meat." 
Matthew10:11 Into whatsoever city, or town ye shall come, enquire who is worthy in it, and there abide till ye go thence." 
Matthew10:12 And when ye come into an house greet(salute) the same. 
Matthew10:13 And if the house be worthy, your peace shall come upon the same.(it.) But if it be not worthy, your peace shall return to you again." 
Matthew10:14 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor will hear your preaching, when ye depart out of that house, or that city, shake off the dust of your feet." 
Matthew10:15 Truly I say unto you, it shall be easier for the land of Sodom, and Gomorra, in the day of judgement, than for that city." 
Matthew10:16 Lo(behold) I send you forth, as sheep among wolves. Be ye therefore wise as serpents, and innocent as doves." 
Matthew10:17 Beware of men, for they shall deliver you up to the councils, and shall scourge you in their synagogues." 
Matthew10:18 And ye shall be brought to the head rulers and kings for my sake, in witness to them and to the gentiles." 
Matthew10:19 But when they put(deliver) you up, take no thought, how, or what ye shall speak, for it shall be given you even in that same hour, what ye shall say." 
Matthew10:20 For it is not ye that speak, but the spirit of your father which speaketh in you." 
Matthew10:21 The brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son. And the children shall arise against their fathers, and mothers, and shall put them to death," 
Matthew10:22 and ye shall be hated of all men, for my name. But whosoever(he that) shall continue(endureth) unto the end, shall be saved." 
Matthew10:23 When they persecute you in one city, fly into another. I tell you for a truth, ye shall not finish all the cities of Israel, till the son of man be come." 
Matthew10:24 The disciple is not above his Master: Nor yet the servant above his Lord. 
Matthew10:25 It is enough for the disciple to be as his Master is, and that the servant be as his Lord is. If they have called the Lord of the house beelzebub: how much more shall they call them of his household so?" 
Matthew10:26 Fear them not therefore. There is nothing so close, that shall not be opened, and nothing so hid,(secret) that shall not be known." 
Matthew10:27 What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light. And what ye hear in the ear that preach ye on the house tops." 
Matthew10:28 And fear ye not them which kill the body, and be not able to kill the soul. But rather fear him, which is able to destroy both soul and body in (to) hell." 
Matthew10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And none of them doth light on the ground, without your father." 
Matthew10:30 And now are all the hairs of your heads numbered. 
Matthew10:31 Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value, than many sparrows." 
Matthew10:32 Whosoever therefore knowledgeth(shall knowledge) me before men, him will I knowledge (also) before my father which is in heaven." 
Matthew10:33 But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my father which is in heaven." 
Matthew10:34 Think not, that I am come to send peace into the earth. I came not to send peace, but a sword." 
Matthew10:35 For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law:" 
Matthew10:36 And a man's foes shall be, they of his own household." 
Matthew10:37 He that loveth his father, or mother more than me, is not worthy of me.(not meet for me.) And he that loveth his son, or daughter more than me, is not meet for me." 
Matthew10:38 And he that taketh not his cross and followeth me, is not meet for me." 
Matthew10:39 He that findeth his life, shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it." 
Matthew10:40 He that receiveth you, receiveth me: and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me." 
Matthew10:41 He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet, shall receive a prophet's reward. And he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man, shall receive the reward of a righteous man." 
Matthew10:42 And whosoever shall give unto one of these little ones to, drink a cup of cold water only, in the name of a disciple: I tell you of a truth, he shall not lose his reward." 
Matthew11:1 And it came to pass when Jesus had ended his precepts unto his disciples,(had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, that) he departed thence, (to teach and) to preach and teach in their cities." 
Matthew11:2 When John being in prison heard the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples and said unto him." 
Matthew11:2 When John being in prison heard the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples and said unto him." 
Matthew11:3 Art thou he that shall come: or shall we look for another. 
Matthew11:4 Jesus answered and said unto them. Go and shew John what ye have heard and seen. 
Matthew11:4 Jesus answered and said unto them. Go and shew John what ye have heard and seen. 
Matthew11:5 The blind see, the halt go, the lepers are cleansed: The deaf hear, the dead are raised up(rise) again, and the gospel(gospell or glad tidings) is preached to the poor." 
Matthew11:6 And happy(blessed) is he that is not hurt(offended) by me. 
Matthew11:7 Even(And) as they departed, Jesus began to speak unto the people of John. What(To see what) went ye (out) for to see in (to) the wilderness? went ye out to see a reed wavering(shaken) with the wind?" 
Matthew11:7 Even(And) as they departed, Jesus began to speak unto the people of John. What(To see what) went ye (out) for to see in (to) the wilderness? went ye out to see a reed wavering(shaken) with the wind?" 
Matthew11:8 Other what went ye out for to see? Went ye to see a man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses." 
Matthew11:9 But what went ye out for to see? Went ye out to see, a prophet? Yea I say unto you, and more than a prophet." 
Matthew11:10 For this is he of whom it is written. Behold, I send my messenger before thy face which shall prepare thy way before thee." 
Matthew11:11 Verify I say unto you, among the children of women arose there not a greater than John (the) baptist. Notwithstanding he that is less in the kingdom of heaven, is greater than he." 
Matthew11:11 Verify I say unto you, among the children of women arose there not a greater than John (the) baptist. Notwithstanding he that is less in the kingdom of heaven, is greater than he." 
Matthew11:12 From the time of John baptist hitherto, the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence," 
Matthew11:12 From the time of John baptist hitherto, the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence," 
Matthew11:13 and they that make(go to it with) violence pulleth(pluck) it to(unto) them. For all the prophets, and the law prophesied unto the time of John." 
Matthew11:13 and they that make(go to it with) violence pulleth(pluck) it to(unto) them. For all the prophets, and the law prophesied unto the time of John." 
Matthew11:14 (And) Also if ye will receive it, this is Helyas, which should come." 
Matthew11:15 He that hath ears to hear whithall, let him hear." 
Matthew11:16 But whereunto shall I liken this generation? it is like unto children, which sit in the market, and call unto their fellows," 
Matthew11:17 and say: We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced? We have mourned unto you, and ye have not sorrowed." 
Matthew11:18 For John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they say, he hath the devil." 
Matthew11:18 For John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they say, he hath the devil." 
Matthew11:19 The son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, behold a glutton, and drinker of wine, and a friend unto publicans, and sinners. And (Neverthelater) wisdom is justified of her children." 
Matthew11:20 Then began he to upbraid the cities, in which most of his miracles were done, because they did not repent.(mended not.)" 
Matthew11:21 Woe be to thee Chorasin. Woe be to thee Bethsaida, for if the miracles which were shewed in you, had been done in Tyre and in Sidon: they had repented long agone in sackcloth and ashes." 
Matthew11:22 Nevertheless I say to you, it shall be easier for Tyre and Sidon, at the day of judgement, than for you." 
Matthew11:23 And thou Capernaum, which art lift up unto heaven, shalt be thrust(brought) down to hell. For if the miracles which have been done in thee, had been shewed in Sodom, they had remained to this day." 
Matthew11:24 Nevertheless I say unto you, it shall be easier for (the land of) Sodom in the day of judgement, than for thee." 
Matthew11:25 Then(At that time) Jesus answered and said: I praise thee O father Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast opened them unto babes," 
Matthew11:26 even so father, for so it pleased thee." 
Matthew11:27 All things are given unto me of my father. And no man knoweth the son, but the father; neither knoweth any man the father, save the son, and he to whom the son will open him." 
Matthew11:28 Come unto me all ye that labor, and are laden, and I will ease you." 
Matthew11:29 Take my yoke on you, and learn of me, for I am meek, and lowly in(of) heart: and ye shall find ease(rest) unto your souls." 
Matthew11:30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light." 
Matthew12:1 In that time went Jesus on the Sabbath day thorow the corn, and his disciples were anhungered,(hungry) and began to pluck the ears of corn, and to eat." 
Matthew12:2 When the pharisees had seen(saw) that, they said unto him: Behold thy disciples do that which is not lawful (for them) to do upon the Sabbath day." 
Matthew12:3 He said unto them: Have ye not read what David did, when he was anhungered, and they also which were with him?" 
Matthew12:4 How he entered into the house of God, and ate the hallowed loaves, which were not lawful for him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the priests." 
Matthew12:5 Or have ye not read in the law, how that (on the Sabbath days) the priests in the temple break the Sabbath day, and yet are blameless?" 
Matthew12:6 But I say unto you, that here is one greater than the temple." 
Matthew12:7 Wherefore if ye had wist, what this saying meaneth: I require mercy, and not sacrifice,(I haue pleasure in mercy, and not in offering) ye would never have condemned innocents." 
Matthew12:8 For the son of man is Lord even of the Sabbath day. 
Matthew12:9 And he departed thence, and went into their synagogue," 
Matthew12:10 and behold, there was a man, which had his hand dried up. And they asked him saying: Is it lawful to heal upon the Sabbath day?(days) because they might accuse him." 
Matthew12:11 And he said unto them: which is he among you,(which of you would it be) if he had a sheep fallen into a pit on the Sabbath day, that would not take him and lift him out?" 
Matthew12:12 And how much is a man better then a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do a good deed on the Sabbath day. 
Matthew12:13 Then said he to the man: stretch forth thy hand, and he stretched (it) forth, and it was again made even as whole as(like unto) the other." 
Matthew12:14 Then the pharisees went forth,(out) and took(held a) council against him, how they might destroy him." 
Matthew12:15 When Jesus knew that, he departed thence, and much people followed him, and he healed them all;" 
Matthew12:16 and charged them, that they should not make him known," 
Matthew12:17 to fulfil that which was spoken by Esay the prophet, which sayeth:" 
Matthew12:18 Behold my son,(child) whom I have chosen, my darling,(beloved) in whom my soul hath had delight.(delighteth.) I will put my spirit on him, and he shall shew judgement to the gentiles." 
Matthew12:19 He shall not strive, he shall not cry, neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets," 
Matthew12:20 a bruised reed, shall he not break, and flax that beginneth to burn he shall not quench, till he send forth judgement unto victory," 
Matthew12:21 and in his name shall the gentiles trust. 
Matthew12:22 Then was brought to him, one possessed with a devil which was both blind and dumb, and he healed him, insomuch that he which was blind and dumb, both spake and saw." 
Matthew12:23 And all the people were amazed, and said: Is not this the son of David?" 
Matthew12:24 (But) When the pharisees heard that, they said: He(This fellow) driveth the devils no other wise out, but by the help of belzebub the chief of the devils." 
Matthew12:25 But Jesus knew their thoughts, and said to them. Every kingdom divided with in itself shall be desolate.(brought to nought.) Neither shall any city or household divided against itself, continue." 
Matthew12:26 So if satan cast out satan, then is he divided against(at variance within) him self. How shall then his kingdom endure?" 
Matthew12:27 Also if I by the help of belzebub cast out devils: by whose help do your children cast them out? therefore they shall be your judges: 
Matthew12:28 But if I cast out the devils by the spirit of God: then is the kingdom of God come on you? 
Matthew12:29 Either how can a man enter into a mighty(strong) man's house, and violently take away his goods, except he first bind the strong man, and then spoil his house?" 
Matthew12:30 He that is not with me, is against me: And he that gathereth not with me, scattereth abroad." 
Matthew12:31 Wherefore I say unto you, all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men, but the blasphemy against the holy ghost,(of the spirit) shall not be forgiven unto men." 
Matthew12:32 And whosoever speaketh a word against the son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the holy ghost, it shall not be forgiven him: no, neither in this world, neither in the world to come." 
Matthew12:33 Either(Other) make the tree good, and his fruit good also, or else make the tree evil, and his fruit evil also. For the tree is known by his fruit." 
Matthew12:34 O generation of vipers, how can ye say well, when ye yourselves are evil? For of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh." 
Matthew12:35 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart, bringeth forth good things. And an evil man out of his evil treasure, bringeth forth evil things." 
Matthew12:36 But I say unto you, that of every idle word, that men shall have spoken, they shall give accounts at the day of judgement." 
Matthew12:37 For by thy words thou shalt be justified: and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. 
Matthew12:38 Then answered certain of the scribes and of the pharisees saying: Master, we would fain see a sign of thee." 
Matthew12:39 He answered them saying: the evil and advoutrous generation seeketh a sign, but there shall no sign be given to them, but the sign of the prophet Jonas." 
Matthew12:40 For as Jonas was three days, and three nights, in the whale's belly: so shall the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth." 
Matthew12:41 The men of Nineveh shall rise at the day of judgement, with this nation, and condemn them: for they repented(amended) at the preaching of Jonas. And behold a greater than Jonas is here." 
Matthew12:42 The queen of the south shall rise at the day of judgement with this generation, and shall condemn them: for she came from the utmost parts of the world, to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold here is a greater than Solomon.(is here.)" 
Matthew12:43 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh throughout dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none." 
Matthew12:44 Then he sayeth: I will return again into my house, from whence I came out. And when he is come, he findeth the house empty and swept, and garnished." 
Matthew12:45 Then he goeth his way, and taketh (unto him) seven (other) spirits worse than him self, and so enter they in and dwell there. And the end of that man is worse than the beginning. Even so shall it be to(with) this froward(evil) nation." 
Matthew12:46 While he yet talked to the people: behold, his mother and his brethren stood without the doors, desiring to speak with him." 
Matthew12:47 Then one said unto him: Behold thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee." 
Matthew12:48 He answered and said to him that told him: Who is my mother? or who are my brethren? 
Matthew12:49 And he stretched forth his hand over his disciples, and said: Behold my mother and my brethren." 
Matthew12:50 For whosoever fulfilleth(doth) my fathers will which is in heaven, he(the same) is my brother, my sister, and my mother." 
Matthew13:1 The same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea side," 
Matthew13:2 and much people resorted unto him, so greatly that he went, and sat in a ship, and all the people stood on the shore." 
Matthew13:3 And he spake many things to them in similitudes, saying: Behold, the sower went forth to sow." 
Matthew13:4 And as he sowed, some fell by the ways side, and the fowls came, and devoured it up." 
Matthew13:5 Some fell upon stony ground where it had not much earth, and anon it sprong up, because it had no depth of earth:" 
Matthew13:6 And when the sun was up, it caught heat, and for lack of rooting withered away." 
Matthew13:7 Some fell among thorns, and the thorns arose(sprong up) and choked it." 
Matthew13:8 Part fell in good ground, and brought forth good fruit: some an hundred fold, some fifty(sixty) fold, some thirty fold." 
Matthew13:9 Whosoever hath ears to hear, let him hear." 
Matthew13:10 And his(the) disciples came, and said to him: Why speakest thou to them in parables?" 
Matthew13:11 He answered and said unto them: It is given unto you to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given." 
Matthew13:12 For whosoever hath, to him shall be given: and he shall have abundance. But whosoever hath not: from him shall be taken away even that same that he hath." 
Matthew13:13 Therefore speak I to them in similitudes.(parables) For though they see, they see not: and hearing they hear not: nether understand." 
Matthew13:14 And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esay, which prophecy saith: with your(the) ears ye shall hear, and shall not understand, and with your(the) eyes ye shall see, and shall not perceive." 
Matthew13:15 For this people's heart is(hearts are) waxed gross. And their ears were dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and should understand with their hearts, and should turn, that I might heal them." 
Matthew13:16 But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear." 
Matthew13:17 Verily I say unto you, that many prophets and perfect(rigtheous) men have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them: and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them." 
Matthew13:18 Hear ye therefore the similitude of the sower. 
Matthew13:19 When a man(Whosoever) heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, there cometh the evil man, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. And this is he which was sown by the way side." 
Matthew13:20 But he that was sown in the stony ground, is he, which heareth the word of God, and anon with joy receiveth it," 
Matthew13:21 yet hath no roots in himself, and therefore dureth but a season: for as soon as tribulation(trouble) or persecution ariseth be cause of the word, by and by he falleth.(immediately he is offended)" 
Matthew13:22 He that was sown among thorns, is he, that heareth the word of God, but the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and so is he made unfruitful." 
Matthew13:23 He which is sown in the good ground, is he, that heareth the word and understandeth it, which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundred fold, some fifty(sixty) fold, and some thirty fold." 
Matthew13:24 Another similitude put he forth, unto them saying: The kingdom of heaven is like unto a man which sowed good seed in his field." 
Matthew13:25 But while men slept, there came his foe, and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way." 
Matthew13:26 When the blade was sprung up, and had brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also." 
Matthew13:27 The servants (then) came to the householder, and said unto him. Sir sowest not thou good seed in thy close, from whence then hath it tares?" 
Matthew13:28 (But) He said to them, the envious man hath done this. Then the servants said unto him: wilt thou then that we go and gather it?(weed them out?)" 
Matthew13:29 and(but) he said, nay, lest while ye go about to weed out the tares, ye pluck up also with them the wheat by the roots:" 
Matthew13:30 let both grow together(to gether) till harvest come, and in time of harvest, I will say yea unto my(to the) reapers, gather ye first the tares, and bind them in sheaves to be brent: but gather the wheat into my barn." 
Matthew13:31 Another parable he put forth unto them saying: The kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of mustard seed, which a man taketh and soweth in his field, which is the least of all seeds." 
Matthew13:32 But when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and (it) is a tree: so that the birds of the air come, and build in the branches of it." 
Matthew13:33 Another similitude said he to them. The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven which a woman took(taketh) and hideth in(mixt it among) three pecks of meal, till all was(be) leavened." 
Matthew13:34 All these things spake Jesus unto the people by similitudes, and with out similitudes spake he nothing to them," 
Matthew13:35 to fulfil that which was spoken by the prophet saying: I will open my mouth in similitudes, and will speak forth things which have been kept secret from the beginning of the world." 
Matthew13:36 Then sent Jesus the people away, and came to house,(home.) and his disciples came unto him, saying: declare unto us the similitude of the tares of(in) the field:" 
Matthew13:37 Then answered he and said to them. He that soweth the good seed, is the son of man," 
Matthew13:38 (and) the field is the world. (And) The children of the kingdom (,they) are the good seed. (And) The evil man's children are the tares.(And the tares are the children of the wicked.)" 
Matthew13:39 But(And) the enemy which(that) soweth it,(them) is the devil. The harvest is the end of the world, and the reapers be the angels." 
Matthew13:40 For even as the tares are gathered, and brent in the fire: so shall it be in the end of this world." 
Matthew13:41 The son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that do hurt,(offend) and all them which do iniquity," 
Matthew13:42 and shall cast them into a furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew13:43 Then shall the just men shine as bright as the son in the kingdom of their father. Whosoever hath ears to hear, let him hear." 
Matthew13:44 Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hid in the field, the which a man found(findeth) and hid(hideth) it: and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." 
Matthew13:45 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant, seeking(that seeketh) good pearls," 
Matthew13:46 which when he had found one precious pearl, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." 
Matthew13:47 Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net cast in to the sea, that gathereth of all kinds (of fishes):" 
Matthew13:48 the which when it is full, men draw to land, and sit and gather the good into their vessels, and cast the bad away." 
Matthew13:49 So shall it be at the end of the world. The angels shall come(go out) and sever the bad from the good,(righteous)" 
Matthew13:50 and shall cast them in to a furnace of fire, there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth." 
Matthew13:51 Jesus said unto them: Have ye understood(Understand ye) all these things? They said, yea sir.(ye Lorde.)" 
Matthew13:52 Then said he unto them: Therefore every scribe which is conning(taught) unto the kingdom of heaven, is like an householder, which bringeth forth, out of his treasure, things both new and old." 
Matthew13:53 And it came to pass when Jesus had finished these similitudes that he departed thence," 
Matthew13:54 and came in to his own country, and taught them in their synagogues, insomuch that they were astonied, and said: Whence came(cometh) all this wisdom and power unto him?" 
Matthew13:55 Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren be called, James and Joses and Simon and Judas?" 
Matthew13:55 Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren be called, James and Joses and Simon and Judas?" 
Matthew13:56 And are not his sisters all here with us? Whence hath he all these things. 
Matthew13:57 And they were hurt(offended) by him. Then Jesus said unto them: there is no prophet(a prophet is not) without honour, save in his own country, and among his own kin." 
Matthew13:58 And he did not many miracles there, for their unbelief's sake." 
Matthew14:1 In(At) that time Herod the tetrarcha heard of the fame of Jesu," 
Matthew14:2 and said unto his servants: This is John (the) baptist, he is risen again from death, and therefore his power is so great.(therefore are such miracles wrought by him.)" 
Matthew14:2 and said unto his servants: This is John (the) baptist, he is risen again from death, and therefore his power is so great.(therefore are such miracles wrought by him.)" 
Matthew14:3 For Herod took(had taken) John and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife." 
Matthew14:3 For Herod took(had taken) John and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife." 
Matthew14:4 For John said unto him: It is not lawful for thee to have her. 
Matthew14:4 For John said unto him: It is not lawful for thee to have her. 
Matthew14:5 And when he would have put him to death, he feared the people, because they counted him as a prophet." 
Matthew14:6 (But) When Herod's birth day was come the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod." 
Matthew14:7 Wherefore he promised with an oath, that he would give her whatsoever she would ask." 
Matthew14:8 And she being informed of her mother before, said give me here John baptist's head in a platter." 
Matthew14:8 And she being informed of her mother before, said give me here John baptist's head in a platter." 
Matthew14:9 And the King sorrowed:(was sorry) nevertheless for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat also at the table, he commanded it to be given her." 
Matthew14:10 And sent and beheaded John in the prison," 
Matthew14:10 And sent and beheaded John in the prison," 
Matthew14:11 and his head was brought in a platter, and given to the damsel, and she brought it to her mother." 
Matthew14:12 And his disciples came, and took up his body, and buried it: And went and told Jesus." 
Matthew14:13 When Jesus had heard that, he departed thence by ship into a desert place out of the way. And when the people had heard thereof, they followed him afoot out of their cities." 
Matthew14:14 And Jesus went forth and saw much people: and his heart did melt upon them, and he healed of them those that were sick." 
Matthew14:15 When even was come, his disciples came to him saying: This is a desert place, and the day is spent, let the people depart that they may go in to the towns, and buy them vitailles." 
Matthew14:16 But Jesus said unto them: They have no need to go away: Give ye them to eat. 
Matthew14:17 Then said they unto him: We have here but five loaves, and two fishes." 
Matthew14:18 (And) He said: Bring them hither to me. 
Matthew14:19 And he commanded, the people to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looked up to heaven, and blessed,(gave thanks) and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people." 
Matthew14:20 And they all ate,(did all eat) and were sufficed. And they gathered up of the gobbets that remained twelve baskets full." 
Matthew14:21 (And) They that ate were in number about five thousand men, besides women and children." 
Matthew14:22 And straight way Jesus made his disciples enter in to a ship, and to go over before him, while he sent the people away." 
Matthew14:23 And as soon as he had sent the people away, he went up into a mountain alone to pray. And when night was come he was there himself alone." 
Matthew14:24 And the ship was (now) in the midst of the sea, and was tossed with waves, for it was a contrary wind." 
Matthew14:25 In the fourth watch of the night Jesus came unto them, walking on the sea:" 
Matthew14:26 and when his disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were amazed,(troubled) saying: it is some spirit, and cried out for fear." 
Matthew14:27 And straightway Jesus spake unto them saying: be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid." 
Matthew14:28 Peter answered, (him) and said: Master, and(if) thou be he, bid me come unto thee on the water." 
Matthew14:29 And he said come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus." 
Matthew14:30 But when he saw a mighty wind, he was afraid. And as he began to sink, he cried saying: Master save me." 
Matthew14:31 And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said to him: O thou of little faith: wherefore didst thou doubt?" 
Matthew14:32 And as soon as they were come into the ship, the wind ceased." 
Matthew14:33 Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him,(fell down before him) saying: Of a truth thou art the son of God." 
Matthew14:34 And when they were come over, they went in to the land of Genazareth." 
Matthew14:35 And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that were sick," 
Matthew14:36 and besought him, that they might touch the border(hem) of his vesture only. And as many as touched it,(hytt) were made safe.(whole)" 
Matthew15:1 Then came to Jesus: scribes and pharisees from Jerusalem, saying:" 
Matthew15:2 Why do thy disciples transgress the traditions of the seniors?(elders?) for they wash not their hands, when they eat bread." 
Matthew15:3 He answered, and said unto them: why do ye also transgress the commandment of God, thorow your traditions?" 
Matthew15:4 For God commanded, saying: honour thy father and mother, and he that speaketh evil against(curseth) his father or mother, shall suffer death." 
Matthew15:5 But ye say, every man shall say to his father or mother: whatsoever thing I offer, that same doth profit thee,(that which thou desirest of me to help thee with: is given God:)" 
Matthew15:6 and so shall he not honour his father and(or his) mother. And thus have ye made, that the commandment of God is with out effect, through your traditions." 
Matthew15:7 Hypocrites, well prophesied of you, Esay saying:" 
Matthew15:8 This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouths, and honoureth me with their lips, yet(howbeit) their hearts are far from me:" 
Matthew15:9 but in vain they worship me teaching doctrine,(doctrines) which is(are) nothing but men's precepts.(commandments of men)" 
Matthew15:10 And he called the people unto him, and said to them: hear and understand." 
Matthew15:11 That which goeth in to the mouth, defileth not the man: but that which cometh out of the mouth, defileth the man." 
Matthew15:12 Then came his disciples, and said unto him: Perceivest thou, (not) how that the pharisees are offended (in) hearing this saying?" 
Matthew15:13 He answered, and said: All plants which my heavenly father hath not planted, shall be plucked up by the roots.(rotes)" 
Matthew15:14 Let them alone, they be the blind leaders of the blind. If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch." 
Matthew15:15 Then answered Peter and said to him: declare unto us this parable. 
Matthew15:16 Then said Jesus: Are ye yet withouten understanding: 
Matthew15:17 perceive ye not, that whatsoever goeth in at the mouth, descendeth down into the belly, and is cast out into the draught?" 
Matthew15:18 But those things which proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and they defile a(the) man." 
Matthew15:19 For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, breaking of wedlock, whoredom, theft, false witness bearing, blasphemy." 
Matthew15:20 These are the things which defile a man. But to eat with unwashen hands, defileth not a man." 
Matthew15:21 And Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon." 
Matthew15:22 And behold a woman which was a Canaanite came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying: have mercy on me Lord the(thou) son of David, my daughter is piteously vexed with a devil." 
Matthew15:23 And he gave her never a word to answer. Then came to him his disciples, and besought him saying: Send her away, for she followeth us crying." 
Matthew15:24 He answered, and said: I am not sent, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel." 
Matthew15:25 Then she came and worshipped him,(fell down before him) saying: Master(LORDE) succor(help) me." 
Matthew15:26 He answered and said: It is not good, to take the children's bread, and to cast it to whelps." 
Matthew15:27 She answered and said: It is truth,(Truthe LORDE) nevertheless the whelps eat of the crumbs, which fall from their masters' table." 
Matthew15:28 Then Jesus answered and said unto her. O woman great is thy faith, be it to thee, even as thou desirest. And her daughter was made whole even at that same time.(hour.)" 
Matthew15:29 Then Jesus went away from thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee, and went up in to a mountain, and sat down there." 
Matthew15:30 And much people came unto him having with them, halt, blind, dumb, maimed, and other many: and cast them down at Jesus' feet. And he healed them," 
Matthew15:31 insomuch that the people wondered, to see the dumb speak, the maimed whole, and the halt to go, the blind to see, and (they) glorified the God of Israel." 
Matthew15:32 (Then) Jesus called his disciples to him and said: I have compassion on the people, because they have continued with me now three days, and have nothing(nought) to eat: and I will not let them depart fasting lest they perish in the way." 
Matthew15:33 And his disciples said unto him: whence should we get so much bread in the wilderness as should suffice so great a multitude? 
Matthew15:34 And Jesus said unto them: how many loaves have ye? And they said: Seven, and a few (little) fishes." 
Matthew15:35 And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground. 
Matthew15:36 And took the seven loaves, and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake them, and gave to his disciples, and his(the) disciples gave them to the people." 
Matthew15:37 And they all ate,(did all eat) and were sufficed. And they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets full." 
Matthew15:38 (And yet) They that ate were four thousand men, beside women and children." 
Matthew15:39 And he sent away the people, and took ship and came into the parts of Magdala." 
Matthew16:1 Then came to him the pharisees with the sadducees also, and did tempt him, desiring that he would(him to) shew them some sign from heaven." 
Matthew16:2 He answered and said unto them: At even ye say, we shall have fair weather, and that because the sky is red:" 
Matthew16:3 (And) In the morning: ye say, today shall be foul weather, and that because the sky is tremulous(cloudy) and red. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the fashion of the sky: and can ye not discern the signs of the times?" 
Matthew16:4 The froward nation, and advoutrous, seeketh a sign: (and) there shall none other sign be given unto them, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. So left he them and departed." 
Matthew16:5 And when his disciples were come to the other side of the water, they had forgotten to take bread with them." 
Matthew16:6 Then Jesus said unto them: Take heed and beware of the leaven of the pharisees, and of the sadducees." 
Matthew16:7 (And) They thought among(in) themselves saying: (because) we have brought no bread with us. 
Matthew16:8 When Jesus understood that,(perceived it) he said unto them. O ye of little faith, why are your minds cumbered because ye have brought no bread?" 
Matthew16:9 Do ye not yet perceive, neither remember those five loaves, when there were five thousand men, and how many baskets took ye up?" 
Matthew16:10 Neither the seven loaves, when there were four thousand:(iiiii. M.) and how many baskets took ye up?" 
Matthew16:11 Why perceive ye not then, that I spake not unto you of bread, when I said, beware of the leaven of the pharisees and of the sadducees?" 
Matthew16:12 Then understood they, how that he bade not them beware of the leaven of bread: but of the doctrine of the pharisees, and of the sadducees." 
Matthew16:13 When Jesus came into the coasts of the city which is called Cesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples saying: Whom do men say that I the son of man am?" 
Matthew16:14 They said: Some say that thou art John baptist, some Helyas, some Jeremias, or one of the prophets." 
Matthew16:14 They said: Some say that thou art John baptist, some Helyas, some Jeremias, or one of the prophets." 
Matthew16:15 He said unto them: But whom say ye that I am? 
Matthew16:16 Simon Peter answered, and said: Thou art Christ the son of the living God." 
Matthew16:17 And Jesus answered and said to him: Happy(Blessed) art thou Simon the son of Jonas, for flesh and blood have(hath) not opened unto thee that, but my father which is in heaven." 
Matthew16:18 And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter. And upon this rock I will build my congregation: and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 
Matthew16:19 And I will give unto thee, the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou bindest upon earth, it shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou loosest(lowsest) on earth, it shall be loosed(lowsed) in heaven." 
Matthew16:20 Then he charged his disciples, that they should tell no man, that he was Jesus Christ." 
Matthew16:21 From that time forth, Jesus began to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the seniors,(elders) and of the high(hye) priests, and of the scribes, and must be killed, and rise again the third day." 
Matthew16:22 (But) Peter took him aside, and began to rebuke him saying: Master favor thy self, this shall not come unto thee." 
Matthew16:23 Then turned he about, and said unto Peter: go(come) after me Satan, thou offendest me, because thou perceivest(favourest or savourest) not godly things: but worldly things." 
Matthew16:24 Jesus then said to his disciples. If any man will follow me, let him forsake himself, and take up his cross and follow me." 
Matthew16:25 For whosoever will save his life, shall loose it. And whosoever shall loose his life for my sake, shall find it.(loose, exact spelling; from the hebrew to open, may be also lose, or subdue)" 
Matthew16:26 What shall it profit(What helpeth) a man, if(though) he should win all the whole world: so(if) he loose his own soul?(and yet suffer harm in his soul?) Or else what shall a man give to redeem his soul again withal?" 
Matthew16:27 For the son of man shall come in the glory of his father, with his angels, and then shall he reward every man according to his deeds." 
Matthew16:28 Verily I say unto you, some there be among them that here stand, which shall not taste of death, till they shall have seen the son of man come in his kingdom." 
Matthew17:1 And after six days Jesus took Peter and James and John his brother, and brought them up into an high mountain out of the way," 
Matthew17:1 And after six days Jesus took Peter and James and John his brother, and brought them up into an high mountain out of the way," 
Matthew17:1 And after six days Jesus took Peter and James and John his brother, and brought them up into an high mountain out of the way," 
Matthew17:2 and was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and his clothes were as white as the light." 
Matthew17:3 And behold there appeared unto them Moses and Helyas talking with him. 
Matthew17:4 Then answered Peter, and said to Jesus: Master here is good being for us. If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Helyas." 
Matthew17:5 While he yet spake, behold a bright cloud shadowed them. And lo(behold there came) a voice out of the cloud said:(saying:) This is my dear son, in whom I delight, hear him." 
Matthew17:6 And when the disciples heard that, they fell on their faces, and were sore afraid." 
Matthew17:7 And Jesus came and touched them, and said: Arise and be not afraid." 
Matthew17:8 Then lift they up their eyes, and(And when they looked up, they) saw no man, but(save) Jesus only.(onely.)" 
Matthew17:9 And as they came down from the mountain, he(Jesus) charged them saying: See that ye shew this (tell the) vision to no man, til the son of man be risen again from death." 
Matthew17:10 And his disciples asked of him, saying: Why then say the scribes, that Helias must first come?" 
Matthew17:11 Jesus answered, and said unto them: Helias shall first come, and restore all things." 
Matthew17:12 And I say unto you, that Helias is come already: And they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they lusted. In likewise shall also the son of man suffer of them." 
Matthew17:13 Then his(the) disciples perceived, that he spake unto them of John baptist." 
Matthew17:13 Then his(the) disciples perceived, that he spake unto them of John baptist." 
Matthew17:14 And when they were come to the people, there came to him a certain man, and kneeled down to him saying:(and said:)" 
Matthew17:15 Master have mercy on my son, for he is frantic,(lunatic) and is sore vexed. And ofttimes (he) falleth in to the fire, and oft into the water." 
Matthew17:16 And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not heal him." 
Matthew17:17 Jesus answered and said: O generation faithless, and crooked: how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me." 
Matthew17:18 And Jesus rebuked the devil, and he came out. (of him) And the child was healed even that same hour." 
Matthew17:19 Then came his(the) disciples(to Jesus) secretly and said: Why could not we cast him out? 
Matthew17:20 Jesus said unto them: Because of your unbelief. For I say verily unto you, if ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye should say unto this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and he should remove: Neither should any thing be unpossible for you to do." 
Matthew17:21 But(Howbeit) this kind, goeth not out but by prayer and fasting." 
Matthew17:22 While(As) they passed the time in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, the son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men," 
Matthew17:23 and they shall kill him, and the third day he shall rise again. And they sorrowed greatly." 
Matthew17:24 (And) When they were come to Capernaum: They that were wont to gather poll money, came to Peter and said: Doth your Master pay tribute?" 
Matthew17:25 He said: Yea. And when he was come into the house, Jesus spake first to him, saying: What thinkest thou Simon? of whom do the kings of the earth take tribute, or poll money? of their children, or of strangers?" 
Matthew17:26 Peter said unto him: Of strangers. Then said Jesus unto him again: Then are the children free. 
Matthew17:27 Nevertheless, lest we should offend them: go to the sea and cast in thine angle, and take the fish that first cometh up: and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of twelve(twenty) pence that take and pay for me and thee." 
Matthew18:1 The same time the disciples came to Jesus saying: Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? 
Matthew18:2 Jesus called a child unto him, and set him in the midst of them," 
Matthew18:3 and said: Verily I say unto you, except ye turn, and become as children, ye cannot enter in to the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew18:4 Whosoever therefore shall submit(humble) him self as this child, he(the same) is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew18:5 And whosoever receiveth such a child in my name, receiveth me." 
Matthew18:6 But whosoever offend one of these little ones, which believe in me: it were better for him, that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea." 
Matthew18:7 Woe be unto the world because of evil occasions.(offenses,)(slanders) It is necessary that evil occasions(How be it, it cannot be avoided but that offences shall) be given, nevertheless woe be to that(the) man, by whom evil occasion(the offense) cometh." 
Matthew18:8 Wherefore if thy hand, or thy foot, give thee an occasion of evil:(offend thee) cut him off, and cast him from thee. It is better for thee to enter in to life halt or maimed, rather than thou shouldest having two hands or two feet, be cast in to everlasting fire." 
Matthew18:9 And if also thine eye offend thee, pluck him out and cast him from thee. It is better for thee, to enter in to life with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire." 
Matthew18:10 See that ye despise not one of these little ones. For I say unto you, that in heaven their angels (always) behold the face of my father, which is in heaven." 
Matthew18:11 Yea, and the son of man is come to save that which is lost." 
Matthew18:12 How think ye? If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them should go(be gone) astray, will(doth) he not leave ninety and nine in the mountains, and go and seek that one which is gone astray?" 
Matthew18:13 If it happen that he find him, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, then of the ninety and nine, which went not astray." 
Matthew18:14 Even so it(hit) is not the will of your father in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish." 
Matthew18:15 More over if thy brother trespass against thee. Go and tell him his fault between him and thee alone. If he hear thee, thou hast won thy brother:" 
Matthew18:16 But if he hear thee not, then take yet with thee one or two, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses, all things may stand.(be established.)" 
Matthew18:17 If he hear not them, tell it unto the congregation: if he hear not the congregation, take him as an heathen man, and as a publican." 
Matthew18:18 Verily I say unto you whatsoever ye bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven. And whatsoever ye loose(lowse) on earth, shall be loosed(lowsed) in heaven." 
Matthew18:19 Again I say unto you that if two of you shall agree in earth in(upon) any manner thing whatsoever they shall desire: it shall be given them of my father which is in heaven. 
Matthew18:20 For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst(myddes) of them." 
Matthew18:21 Then came Peter to him, and said: Master, how oft shall my brother trespass against me, and I shall forgive him?(how oft shall I forgive my brother, if he sin against me) shall I forgive him seven times?" 
Matthew18:22 Jesus said unto him: I say not unto thee seven times: but seventy times seven times. 
Matthew18:23 Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain King, which would take accounts of his servants," 
Matthew18:24 and when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which ought him ten thousand talents:" 
Matthew18:25 but when(whom because) he had nought to pay, the lord(his master) commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and his children: and all that he had, and payment to be made." 
Matthew18:26 The servant fell down and besought him saying: Sir, give me respite, and I will pay it every whit." 
Matthew18:27 Then had the lord pity on that servant, and loosed(lowsed,)(discharged) him, and forgave him the debt." 
Matthew18:28 The same(And the said) servant went out and found one of his fellows, which ought him an hundred pence. And laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying: pay (me) that thou owest." 
Matthew18:29 And his fellow fell down, and besought him, saying: have patience with me, and I will pay thee all." 
Matthew18:30 And he would not, but went and cast him in to prison, till he should pay the debt." 
Matthew18:31 When his other fellows saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that had happened." 
Matthew18:32 Then the(his) lord called him, and said unto him. O evil(thou wicked) servant, I forgave thee all that debt, be cause thou praydest me:" 
Matthew18:33 Was it not mete also, that thou shouldest have had compassion on thy fellow, even as I had pity on thee?" 
Matthew18:34 And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the jailers, till he should pay all that was due to him." 
Matthew18:35 So like wise shall your(my) heavenly father do unto you, if ye will not(except ye) forgive with your hearts, each one to his brother their trespasses." 
Matthew19:1 And it followed(came to pass) when Jesus had finished those sayings, he gat him from Galilee, and came in to the coasts of Jewry beyond Jordan," 
Matthew19:2 and much people followed him, and he healed them there." 
Matthew19:3 Then came unto him the pharisees to tempt him, and said to him: Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for all(any) manner of causes?" 
Matthew19:4 He answered, and said unto them: Have ye not read, how that he which made man at the beginning, made them man and woman?" 
Matthew19:5 and said: For this thing,(cause) shall a man leave father and mother, and cleave unto his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh." 
Matthew19:6 Wherefore now are they not twain, but one flesh. Let not man therefore put asunder, that which God hath coupled together.(to gydder)" 
Matthew19:7 Then said they to him: Why did Moses command to give unto her a testimonial of divorcement, and to put her away?" 
Matthew19:8 He said unto them: Moses be cause of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: But from the beginning it was not so. 
Matthew19:9 I say therefore unto you, whosoever putteth away his wife (except it be for fornication) and marrieth another, breaketh wedlock. And whosoever marrieth her which is divorced, doth commit advoutry." 
Matthew19:10 Then spake(said) his disciples to him: if the matter be so between man and wife, then is it not good to marry." 
Matthew19:11 He said unto them: all men cannot away with(comprehend) that saying but(save) they to whom it is given. 
Matthew19:12 There are chaste, which were so born out of their mother's belly. And there are chaste, which be made chaste of men. And there be chaste, which have made themselves chaste for the kingdom of heavens' sake. He that can take(comprehend) it let him take(comprehend) it." 
Matthew19:13 Then were brought to him young children, that he should put his hands on them and pray. And his(the) disciples rebuked them." 
Matthew19:14 (But) Jesus said unto them: suffer the children, and forbid them not to come to me, for unto(of) such belongeth(is) the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew19:15 And when he had put his hands on them, he departed thence." 
Matthew19:16 And behold one came, and said unto him: Good master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal(ever lasting) life?" 
Matthew19:17 He said unto him: Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, and that is God. But and(if) thou wilt enter in to life, keep the commandments." 
Matthew19:18 He(The other) said: Which? And Jesus said: Thou shalt not kill: thou shalt not break wedlock. Thou shall not steal: thou shalt not bear false witness. 
Matthew19:19 Honour father and mother: and thou shalt love thine neighbor as thyself. 
Matthew19:20 (And) The young man said unto him: I have observed all these things from my youth, what have I more to do?(what lack I yet?)" 
Matthew19:21 (And) Jesus said unto him: if thou wilt be perfect, go and sell (all) that thou hast, and give it to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me:" 
Matthew19:22 When the young man heard that saying,(word) he went away mourning.(sorry) For he had great possessions." 
Matthew19:23 (Then) Jesus said then unto his disciples: Verily I say unto you, a rich man shall with difficulty(it is hard for a rich man to) enter into the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew19:24 And moreover I say unto you: it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of Heaven.(God.)" 
Matthew19:25 When his disciples heard that, they were exceedingly amazed, saying: Who then can be saved?" 
Matthew19:26 Jesus beheld them, and said unto them: With men this is unpossible, but with God all things are possible." 
Matthew19:27 Then answered Peter, and said to him: Behold we have forsaken all, and have followed thee: what shall we have therefore?" 
Matthew19:28 Jesus said unto them: Verily I say unto you, that ye, which have followed me in the second generation (when the son of man shall sit in the seat of his majesty) shall sit also upon twelve seats, and judge the twelve tribes of Israel.(verily I say to you: when the son of man shall sit in the seat of his majesty, ye which follow me in the second generation shall sit also upon twelve seats, and judge the twelve tribes of Israel.)" 
Matthew19:29 And whosoever forsaketh house,(houses) or brethren, or sisters, other(or) father, or mother, or wife, or children, or livelihood,(lands) for my name's sake, the same shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life." 
Matthew19:30 Many that are first, shall be last and the last, shall be first." 
Matthew20:1 For the kingdom of heaven is like unto an householder which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. 
Matthew20:2 And he agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, and sent them in to his vineyard." 
Matthew20:3 And he went out about the third hour, and saw other standing idle in the market place," 
Matthew20:4 and said unto them: go ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoever is right, I will give you: and they went their way." 
Matthew20:5 Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise." 
Matthew20:6 And he went out about the eleventh hour and found other standing idle, and said unto them: Why stand ye here all the day idle?" 
Matthew20:7 They said unto him: Because no man hath hired us. He said to them: go ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoever shall be(is) right, that shall ye receive." 
Matthew20:8 When even was come, the lord of the vineyard, said unto his steward: call the laborers, and give them their hire, beginning at the last, till thou come to the first." 
Matthew20:9 And they which were hired about the eleventh hour, came and received every man a penny." 
Matthew20:10 Then came the first, supposing that they should receive more, and they like wise received every man a penny." 
Matthew20:11 And when they had received it, they grudged(murmured) against the good man of the house, saying:" 
Matthew20:12 These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us which have borne the burden and heat of the day." 
Matthew20:13 He answered to one of them, saying: Friend I do thee no wrong: didst thou not agree with me for a penny?" 
Matthew20:14 Take that which is thy duty, and go thy way. I will give unto this last, as much as to thee." 
Matthew20:15 Is it not lawful for me to do as me listeth, with mine own? Is thine eye evil because I am good?" 
Matthew20:16 So the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. For many are called, and few be chosen." 
Matthew20:17 And Jesus ascended(went up) to Jerusalem, and took the twelve disciples apart(aside) in the way, and said to them:" 
Matthew20:18 Lo(Behold) we go up to Jerusalem, and the son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests, and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death," 
Matthew20:19 and shall deliver him to the gentiles, to be mocked, to be scourged, and to be crucified: and the third day he shall rise again." 
Matthew20:20 Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshipping him,(fell down before him) and desiring a certain thing of him." 
Matthew20:21 (And) He said unto her: What wilt thou have? She said unto him: Grant that these my two sons may sit, (the) one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand in thy kingdom." 
Matthew20:22 Jesus answered, and said: Ye wot not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of? And to be baptised with the baptism, that I shall be baptised with? They answered to him: That we are." 
Matthew20:23 (And) He said unto them: Ye shall drink of my cup, and shall be baptised with the baptism that I shall be baptised with all.(with.) But to sit on my right hand, and on my left hand, is not mine to give you: but to them for whom it is prepared of my father." 
Matthew20:24 And when the ten heard this, they disdained at the two brethren." 
Matthew20:25 But Jesus called them unto him, and said: Ye know, that the lords of the gentiles have domination over them. And they that are great, exercise power over them." 
Matthew20:26 It shall not be so among you: But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister," 
Matthew20:27 and whosoever will be chief, let him be your servant." 
Matthew20:28 Even as the son of man came, not to be ministered(served) unto, but to minister:(to do service) and to give his life for the redemption of many." 
Matthew20:29 And as they departed from Hiericho, much people followed him." 
Matthew20:30 And behold, two blind men sitting by the wayside, when they heard, that Jesus passed by, cried saying: Master the(O LORDE thou) son of David have mercy on us." 
Matthew20:31 And the people rebuffed(rebuked) them, because they should hold their peace: But they cried the more, saying: have mercy on us master which art the(O LORDE thou) son of David." 
Matthew20:32 Then Jesus stood still, and called them, and said: What will ye that I should do to you?" 
Matthew20:33 They said unto him: Master, LORDE that our eyes may be opened." 
Matthew20:34 Jesus pitied(had compassion on) them, and touched their eyes. And immediately their eyes received sight: And they followed him." 
Matthew21:1 When they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto mount Olivet: then sent Jesus two of his disciples," 
Matthew21:2 saying to them: Go into the town that lieth over against you, and anon ye shall find an ass bound, and her colt with her, loose them and bring them unto me." 
Matthew21:3 And if any man say ought unto you, say ye that your master(the LORDE) hath need of them, and straight way he will let them go." 
Matthew21:4 All this was done, to fulfil that which was spoken by the prophet, saying:" 
Matthew21:5 Tell ye the daughter of Sion: behold thy King cometh unto thee meek, (and) sitting upon an ass and a colt, the foal of an ass used to the yoke." 
Matthew21:6 The disciples went, and did as Jesus commanded them," 
Matthew21:7 and brought the ass and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and set him thereon." 
Matthew21:8 (And) Many of the people spread their garments in the way. Other cut down branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way." 
Matthew21:9 Moreover the people that went before, and they also that came after cried saying: Hosianna to the son of David. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord;(LORDE) Hosianna in the highest.(hyest)" 
Matthew21:10 And when he was come in to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying: Who is this?" 
Matthew21:11 And the people said: This is Jesus the Prophet of Nazareth a city of Galilee. 
Matthew21:12 And Jesus went in to the temple of God, and cast out all them that bought and sold in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves." 
Matthew21:13 And said to them: It is written, mine(my) house shall be called the house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves.(murthurers)" 
Matthew21:14 And the blind and the halt came to him in the temple, and he healed them." 
Matthew21:15 When the chief priests and scribes saw the marvels(wonders) that he did, and the children crying in the temple and saying; Hosianna to the son of David, they disdained," 
Matthew21:16 and said unto him: Hearest thou what these say? Jesus said unto them: (yea) have ye never read, of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast ordained praise?" 
Matthew21:17 And he left them, and went out of the city unto Bethany, and passed the time(had his abiding) there." 
Matthew21:18 In the morning as he returned into the city again, he hungered," 
Matthew21:19 and spied a fig tree in the way, and came to it, and found nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said to it, never fruit grow on thee hence forwards. And anon(immediately) the fig tree withered away." 
Matthew21:20 And when his disciples saw that, they marveled saying: How soon is the fig tree withered away?" 
Matthew21:21 Jesus answered, and said unto them: Verily I say unto you, if ye shall have faith, and shall not doubt, ye shall not only do that which I have done to the fig tree: but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, take thyself away, and cast thyself into the sea, it shall be done." 
Matthew21:22 And whatsoever thing ye shall ask in your prayers if ye believe, ye shall receive it." 
Matthew21:23 And when he was come into the temple, the chief priests and the seniors(elders) of the people came unto him as he was teaching, and said: By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this power?(authority)" 
Matthew21:24 Jesus answered, and said unto them: I also will ask of you a certain question, which if ye assoil me, I in like wise will tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Matthew21:25 Whence was the baptism of John?(The baptime of John: whence was it?) from heaven, or of men? And they thought in(Then they reasoned among) themselves, saying: If we shall say, from heaven, he will say unto us: why did ye not then believe him?" 
Matthew21:25 Whence was the baptism of John?(The baptime of John: whence was it?) from heaven, or of men? And they thought in(Then they reasoned among) themselves, saying: If we shall say, from heaven, he will say unto us: why did ye not then believe him?" 
Matthew21:26 But and if we shall say of men, then fear we the people. For all men held John as a prophet." 
Matthew21:26 But and if we shall say of men, then fear we the people. For all men held John as a prophet." 
Matthew21:27 And they answered Jesus, and said: We cannot tell. (And) He likewise said unto them: neither tell I you by what authority I do these things." 
Matthew21:28 What say ye to this? A certain man had two sons, and came to the elder saying:(and said: son) go and work today in my vineyard." 
Matthew21:29 He answered and said, I will not: but afterward repented and went." 
Matthew21:30 Then came he to the second, and said like wise, and he answered and said: I will sir: yet went he not." 
Matthew21:31 Whether of these two fulfilled their father's will?(Whether of them twain did the will of the father?) And they said unto him: The first. Jesus said unto them: Verily I say unto you, that the publicans and the harlots shall come into the kingdom of God before you." 
Matthew21:32 For John came unto you, in the way of righteousness, and ye believed him not. But the publicans and the whores(harlots) believed him. But(And yet) ye (though ye saw it) yet were not moved with repentance, that ye might afterward have believed him." 
Matthew21:32 For John came unto you, in the way of righteousness, and ye believed him not. But the publicans and the whores(harlots) believed him. But(And yet) ye (though ye saw it) yet were not moved with repentance, that ye might afterward have believed him." 
Matthew21:33 Hearken another similitude. There was a certain householder, which set(planted) a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and made a winepress in it, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a strange country." 
Matthew21:34 And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen, to receive the fruits of it," 
Matthew21:35 and the husbandmen caught his servants, and beat one, killed another, and stoned another." 
Matthew21:36 Again he sent other servants more than the first, and they served them likewise." 
Matthew21:37 But last of all, he sent unto them his own son, saying: they will fear my son." 
Matthew21:38 (But) When the husbandmen saw his(the) son, they said among them selves: This is the heir, come on let us kill him, and let us take his inheritance, to our selves." 
Matthew21:39 And they caught him and thrust him out of the vineyard, and slew him." 
Matthew21:40 When the lord of the vineyard cometh: what will he do with those husbandmen? 
Matthew21:41 They said unto him: he will evil(cruelly) destroy those evil persons, and will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall deliver him his(the) fruit at times convenient." 
Matthew21:42 Jesus said unto them: did ye never read in the scriptures? The same stone which the builders refused,(the same) is set in the principal part of the corner: this was the Lord's(LORDES) doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes." 
Matthew21:43 Therefore say I unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and shall be given to the Gentiles which shall bring forth the fruits of it." 
Matthew21:44 And whosoever shall fall on this stone, (he) shall be alto broken. And(but on) whosoever this stone(it) shall fall upon, he shall(it will) grind him to powder.(And who so falleth upon this stone, shalbe broken in pieces, and look upon whom it falleth, it shall grind him to poulder.)" 
Matthew21:45 And when the chief priests and pharisees heard these similitudes they perceived that he spake of them. 
Matthew21:46 And they went about to lay hands on him, but they feared the people, because they counted(took) him as a prophet." 
Matthew22:1 And Jesus answered and spake unto them again, in similitudes, saying:" 
Matthew22:2 The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain King, which married his son," 
Matthew22:3 and sent forth his servants, to call them that were bid to the wedding, and they would not come." 
Matthew22:4 Again he sent forth other servants, saying: tell them which are bidden: Lo(behold) I have prepared my dinner, mine oxen and my fatlings(fed cattle) are killed, and all things are ready, come unto the marriage." 
Matthew22:5 (But) They made light of it, and went their ways: one to his firm place,(husbandry) another about his merchandise," 
Matthew22:6 the remnant took his servants, and intreated them ungoodly,(shamefully) and slew them." 
Matthew22:7 When the King heard that, he was wroth, and sent forth his warriors and destroyed those murderers, and burnt up their city." 
Matthew22:8 Then said he to his servants: The wedding was prepared: but they which were bidden thereto, were not worthy." 
Matthew22:9 Go ye therefore out into the high(hye) ways, and as many as ye find, bid them to the marriage." 
Matthew22:10 The servants went out into the (hye) ways, and gathered together(togedder) as many as they could find, both good and bad, and the wedding was furnished with guests." 
Matthew22:11 (Then) The King came in, to visit the guests, and spied there a man which had not on a wedding garment," 
Matthew22:12 and said unto him: Friend, how(fortuned it that) camest thou in hither, and * hast not on a wedding garment? and he was even speechless. *(til here the text is from Tyndale's Cologne quarto fragment 1525; the text thereafter is from the Worms octavo edition of 1526; also the whole text includes revision variants of divers renderings, including Coverdale 1535.)" 
Matthew22:13 Then said the King to his ministers: Take and bind him hand and foot, and cast him into utter darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 
Matthew22:14 For many are called and few be chosen. 
Matthew22:15 Then went the pharisees and took counsel, how they might tangle him in his words." 
Matthew22:16 And (they) sent unto him their disciples with Herod's servants,(officers) saying: Master, we know that thou art true, and that thou teachest the way of God truly, neither carest for any man, for thou considerest not men's estate.(regardest not the outward appearaunce of men.)" 
Matthew22:17 Tell us therefore: how thinkest thou? is it lawful to give tribute unto Cesar,(the Emperoure) or not?" 
Matthew22:18 Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said: Why tempt ye me ye hypocrites?" 
Matthew22:19 Let me see the tribute money. And they took him a penny. 
Matthew22:20 And he said unto them: Whose is this image and superscription? 
Matthew22:21 They said unto him: Cesar's. Then said he unto them: Give therefore to Cesar, that which is Cesar's: and give unto God,(god) that which is God's.(goddes)" 
Matthew22:22 When they heard that they marveled, and left him and went their way." 
Matthew22:23 The same day the sadducees came to him (which say that there is no resurrection) and they asked him 
Matthew22:24 saying: Master, Moses bade, if a man die having no children, that the brother marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother." 
Matthew22:25 There were with us seven brethren, (and) the first married and died(deceased) without issue, and left his wife unto his brother." 
Matthew22:26 Likewise the second and the third, unto the seventh:" 
Matthew22:27 Last of all the woman died also. 
Matthew22:28 Now in the resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? for all had her. 
Matthew22:29 Jesus answered and said unto them: ye are deceived, and know(understand) not what the scripture meaneth, nor yet the virtue(power) of God." 
Matthew22:30 For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are married: but are as the angels of God in heaven. 
Matthew22:31 As touching the resurrection of the dead: have ye not read what is said unto you of God, which sayeth:" 
Matthew22:32 I am Abraham's God, and Isaac's God, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead: but of the living." 
Matthew22:33 And when the people heard that, they were astonied at his doctrine." 
Matthew22:34 When the pharisees had heard, how that he had put the sadducees to silence, they drew together,(togedder)" 
Matthew22:35 and one of them which was a doctor of law(a Scribe) asked him a question tempting him and saying: 
Matthew22:36 Master which is the great(chief) commandment in the law? 
Matthew22:37 Jesus said unto him: Thou shalt love thy Lord God(Love the LORD thy God) with all thine heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." 
Matthew22:38 This is the first and that great(chief) commandment.(the principal and greatest commandment) 
Matthew22:39 And there is another like unto this. Thou shalt love thine neighbor as thyself. 
Matthew22:40 In these two commandments, hang all the law and the prophets." 
Matthew22:41 While the pharisees were gathered together Jesus asked them 
Matthew22:42 saying: What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? they said unto him: The son of David. 
Matthew22:43 He said unto them: How then doth David in spirit call him Lord,(LORDE) saying?" 
Matthew22:44 The Lord(LORDE) said to my Lord,(LORDE) sit on my right hand: till I make thine enemies thy footstool." 
Matthew22:45 If David call him Lord:(LORDE) How is he then his son? 
Matthew22:46 And none of them could answer him again one word. Neither durst any from that day forth, ask him any more questions." 
Matthew23:1 Then spake Jesus to the people, and to his disciples," 
Matthew23:2 saying: The scribes and the pharisees sit in Moses' seat," 
Matthew23:3 (All therefore) whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do: but after their works do not: for they say, and do not." 
Matthew23:4 Yea and they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne,(intollerable burthens) and lay them on men's shoulders: but they themselves will not heave (at) them with one (of their) finger.(fingers)" 
Matthew23:5 All their works they do, for to be seen of men. They set abroad their phylacteries, and make large borders on their garments," 
Matthew23:6 and love to sit uppermost at feasts, and to have the chief seats in the synagogues," 
Matthew23:7 and greetings(love to be saluted) in the markets and to be called of men Rabbi. 
Matthew23:8 But ye shall not suffer yourselves to be called Rabbi, for one is your master, that is to wit Christ, and all ye are brethren." 
Matthew23:9 And call ye no man your father upon the earth, for one is(for there is but one) your father, and he is in heaven." 
Matthew23:10 Be not called masters, for one is(for there is but one) your master, and he is Christ." 
Matthew23:11 He that is greatest among you, shall be your servant." 
Matthew23:12 But whosoever exalteth himself, shall be brought low. And he that submiteth(humbleth) himself, shall be exalted." 
Matthew23:13 Woe be unto you scribes and pharisees dissemblers,(hypocrites) for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven before men: ye yourselves go not in, neither suffer ye them that come to enter in." 
Matthew23:14 Woe be unto you scribes and pharisees, for ye devour widows' houses, and that under a colour of praying long prayers, wherefore ye shall receive greater damnation." 
Matthew23:15 Woe be unto you scribes and pharisees hypocrites, for ye(which) compass sea and land, to bring one into your belief:(make one Proselyte) and when ye have brought him(he is brought) ye make him two fold more the child of hell, than ye yourselves are." 
Matthew23:16 Woe be unto you blind guides, for ye(which) say: whosoever swear by the temple, it is nothing: but whosoever swear by the gold of the temple, he is debtor.(he offendeth,)(is guilty)" 
Matthew23:17 Ye fools and blind? whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold." 
Matthew23:18 And whosoever sweareth by the altar it is nothing: but whosoever sweareth by the offering that lieth on the altar is debtor.(offendeth,)(guilty)" 
Matthew23:19 Ye fools and blind: whether is greater the offering, or the altar which sanctifieth the offering?" 
Matthew23:20 whosoever therefore sweareth by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all that thereon is." 
Matthew23:21 And whosoever sweareth by the temple sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth therein." 
Matthew23:22 And he that sweareth by heaven, sweareth by the seat of God, and by him that sitteth thereon." 
Matthew23:23 Woe be to you scribes and pharisees dissemblers,(hypocrites) for ye(which) tithe mint, anise, and cummin, and leave the weightier matters of the law undone:(behind: namely) judgement, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to have left the other undone.(behind)" 
Matthew23:24 Ye blind guides, which strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel." 
Matthew23:25 Woe be to you scribes and pharisees hypocrites, for ye(which) make clean the outer side of the cup, and of the platter: but within they are full of bribery(robbery) and excess." 
Matthew23:26 Thou blind pharisee, cleanse first, that which is within(the inside of) the cup and the platter, that the outside (of them) may also be clean." 
Matthew23:27 Woe be to you scribes, and pharisees hypocrites, for ye are like unto painted tombs(Sepulcres) which appear beautiful outwards: but are within full of dead men's bones and of all filthiness." 
Matthew23:28 So are ye, for outward ye appear righteous unto men, when within ye are full of dissimulation(hypocrisy) and iniquity." 
Matthew23:29 Woe be unto you scribes and pharisees hypocrites, for ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchers of just men,(righteous)" 
Matthew23:30 and say: If we had been in our fathers' time,(the days of our fathers) we would not have been partners with them in the blood of the prophets." 
Matthew23:31 So are(then) ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them, which killed the prophets." 
Matthew23:32 Fulfil ye likewise the measure of your fathers: 
Matthew23:33 ye(yee) serpents and generation of vipers, how shall(should) ye scape the damnation of hell?" 
Matthew23:34 Wherefore behold I send unto you, prophets wise men and scribes, and of them some shall ye kill and crucify, and some(of them) shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city," 
Matthew23:35 that all righteous blood may fall upon you, which(upon you may come all the righteous blood that) was shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel, unto the blood of Zacharias the son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar:" 
Matthew23:36 Verily I say unto you, all these things shall light upon this generation." 
Matthew23:37 Hierusalem, Hierusalem which killest prophets, and stonest them which are sent to thee: how often would I have gathered thy children together,(togedder) as the hen gathereth her chickens under her wings? but ye would not?" 
Matthew23:38 Behold your habitation shall be left unto you desolate. 
Matthew23:39 For I say unto you, ye shall not see me henceforth, till that ye say: blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." 
Matthew24:1 And Jesus went out and departed from the temple: and his disciples came to him, for to shew him the building of the temple." 
Matthew24:2 Jesus said unto them: see ye not all these things? Verily I say unto you: There shall not be here left one stone upon another, that shall not be destroyed.(cast down.)" 
Matthew24:3 And as he sat upon the mount Olivet, his disciples came unto him secretly saying: Tell us, when this(these things) shall be? and what sign shall be of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" 
Matthew24:4 And Jesus answered, and said unto them: take heed that no man deceive you;" 
Matthew24:5 For many shall come in my name saying: I am Christ: and shall deceive many. 
Matthew24:6 Ye shall hear of wars, and of the noise(fame) of wars, but see that ye be not troubled, for all (these things) must come to pass, but the end is not yet." 
Matthew24:7 For nation shall rise against nation,(one people shall rise up against another) and realm against realm: and there shall be pestilence, and hunger, and earthquakes in all quarters." 
Matthew24:8 All these are the beginning of sorrows. 
Matthew24:9 Then shall they put you to trouble, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations(people) for my name's sake:" 
Matthew24:10 And then shall many fall,(be offended) and shall betray one another, and shall hate one the other." 
Matthew24:11 And many false prophets shall arise, and shall deceive many." 
Matthew24:12 And because iniquity shall have the upper hand, the love of many shall abate." 
Matthew24:13 But he that endureth to the end(the same) shall be safe. 
Matthew24:14 And this gospel(glad tidings) of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all nations,(people) and then shall the end come." 
Matthew24:15 When ye then(therefore) shall see the abomination and(that betokeneth) desolation (spoken of by Daniel the prophet) stand in the holy place: whosoever(let him that) readeth it, let him understand it.(mark it well)" 
Matthew24:16 Then let them which be in Jury(Iewry) fly into the mountains. 
Matthew24:17 And let him which is on the housetop, not come down to take(fetch) anything out of his house." 
Matthew24:18 Neither let him which is in the field, return back to fetch his clothes." 
Matthew24:19 Woe(shall) be in those days to them that are with child, and to them that give suck." 
Matthew24:20 But pray that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day." 
Matthew24:21 For then shall be great tribulation,(trouble) such as was not from the beginning of the world to this time, nor(ner) shall be." 
Matthew24:22 Yea and except those days should be shortened, (there) should no flesh be saved: But for the chosens' sake those days shall be shortened." 
Matthew24:23 Then if any man shall say unto you: lo, here is Christ, or there is Christ: believe it not:" 
Matthew24:24 for there shall arise false christs, and false prophets and shall give(do) great signs(miracles) and wonders. So greatly(Insomuch) that if it were possible, even the chosen(the very elect) should be brought into error.(deceived.)" 
Matthew24:25 Take heed I have told you before. 
Matthew24:26 (Wherefore) If they shall say unto you: lo,(behold) he is in the desert,(wilderness) go not forth: lo, he is in the secret places,(chamber) believe not." 
Matthew24:27 For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth unto the west: so shall the coming of the son of man be." 
Matthew24:28 For wheresoever a dead body(carcass) is, even thither will the eagles resort.(Aegles be gathered together)" 
Matthew24:29 Immediately after the tribulations(trouble) of those days, shall the sun be darkeneth:(darkened:) and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heaven shall move." 
Matthew24:30 And then shall appear the sign of the son of man in heaven. And then shall all the kindreds of the earth mourn, and they shall see the son of man come in the clouds of heaven with power and great majesty:(glory.)" 
Matthew24:31 And he shall send his angels with the great voice of a trumpet,(trompe) and they shall gather together(togedther) his chosen from the four winds, and from the one end of the world to the other." 
Matthew24:32 Learn a similitude of the fig tree: when his branches are(branch is) yet tender, and his leaves sprung, ye know that summer is nigh." 
Matthew24:33 So likewise (ye,) when ye see all these things, be ye sure that it is near even at the doors." 
Matthew24:34 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, till all (these) be fulfilled." 
Matthew24:35 Heaven and earth shall perish: but my words shall abide.(not perish) 
Matthew24:36 But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no not the angels of heaven, but my father only." 
Matthew24:37 As the time of Noe was, so likewise shall the coming of the son of man be." 
Matthew24:38 For as in the days before the flood: they did eat and drink, marry, and were married, even unto the day that Noe entered in to the ship," 
Matthew24:39 and knew of nothing(regarded it not) till the flood came and took them all away. So shall also the coming of the son of man be. 
Matthew24:40 Then two shall be in the fields, the one shall be received, and the other shall be refused," 
Matthew24:41 two (women) shall be grinding at the mill: the one shall be received, and the other shall be refused. (Two in a bed; the one shall be received, and the other refused)" 
Matthew24:42 Wake(Watch) therefore, because ye know not what hour your master(LORDE) will come." 
Matthew24:43 Of this be sure, that if the good man of the house knew what hour the thief would come: he would surely watch, and not suffer his house to be broken up." 
Matthew24:44 Therefore be ye also ready, for what(in the) hour ye think least on, in the same shall(ye think he would not: will) the son of man come." 
Matthew24:45 Who is a(If there be any) faithful servant and wise, whom his master hath made ruler over his household, for to give them meat in season convenient?" 
Matthew24:46 Happy(Blessed) is that servant whom his master (when he cometh) shall find so doing. 
Matthew24:47 Verily I say unto you, he shall make him ruler over all his goods." 
Matthew24:48 But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, my master will defer his coming," 
Matthew24:49 and begin to smite his fellows: yea and to eat and to drink with the drunken: 
Matthew24:50 that servants master will come in a day when he looketh not for him: and in an hour that he is not ware of," 
Matthew24:51 and will divide him, and give him his reward with hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 
Matthew25:1 Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went to meet the bridegroom: (and the bride)" 
Matthew25:2 five of them were foolish, and five were wise." 
Matthew25:3 The foolish took their lamps, but took none oil with them." 
Matthew25:4 But the wise took oil with them in their vessels with their lamps also. 
Matthew25:5 While the bridegroom tarried, all slumbered and slept." 
Matthew25:6 And even at midnight, there was a cry made: behold, the bridegroom cometh, go and meet(go out against) him." 
Matthew25:7 Then all those virgins arose, and prepared their lamps." 
Matthew25:8 And the foolish said to the wise: give us of your oil, for our lamps go out?" 
Matthew25:9 But the wise answered, saying: not so, lest there be not enough for us and you, but go rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves." 
Matthew25:10 In conclusion(And) while they went to buy, the bridegroom came: and they that were ready, went in with him to the wedding, and the gate was shut up." 
Matthew25:11 Afterwards came also the other virgins, saying: master, master open to us." 
Matthew25:12 But he answered, and said: verily I say unto you: I know you not:" 
Matthew25:13 look that ye watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor yet the hour, when the son of man shall come." 
Matthew25:14 Likewise as a certain man ready to take his journey to a strange country, called his servants to him, and delivered to them his goods." 
Matthew25:15 And unto one he gave five talents, to another two and to another one: to every man after his ability, and straight way departed." 
Matthew25:16 Then he that had received the five talents, went and bestowed them,(occupied with the same,) and won other five. (talents)" 
Matthew25:17 Likewise he that received two gained other two. 
Matthew25:18 But he that received (the) one, went and digged a pit in the earth and hid his master's money." 
Matthew25:19 After a long season the lord of those servants came, and reckoned with them." 
Matthew25:20 Then came he that had received five talents, and brought other five (talents) saying: master, thou deliveredst unto me five talents, lo(behold) I have gained with them five (talents) more." 
Matthew25:21 (Then) His master said unto him: well good servant and faithful; Thou hast been faithful in little, I will make thee ruler over much: enter in into thy master's joy." 
Matthew25:22 Also he that received two talents came, and said: master, thou deliveredest unto me two talents: lo(behold) I have won two other talents with them." 
Matthew25:23 (And) His master said unto him, well good servant and faithful thou hast been faithful in little, I will make thee ruler over much, go in into thy master's joy." 
Matthew25:24 (Then) He which had received the one talent came also, and said: master, I considered that thou wast an hard man, which reapest where thou sowedst not, and gatherest where thou strawedst not," 
Matthew25:25 and was (therefore) afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo,(Behold) thou hast thine own." 
Matthew25:26 His master answered, and said unto him: (thou) evil servant and slothful, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I strawed not:" 
Matthew25:27 thou oughtest(shouldest) therefore to have had my money to the changers, and then at my coming should I have received my money(mine own) with vantage." 
Matthew25:28 Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents." 
Matthew25:29 For unto every man that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance. And from him that hath not, shall be taken away, even that he hath." 
Matthew25:30 And cast that unprofitable servant into utter darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 
Matthew25:31 When the son of man shall come(cometh) in his majesty,(glory) and all his(the) holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the seat of his majesty,(glory)" 
Matthew25:32 and before him shall be gathered all nations.(people) And he shall sever(separate) them one from another, as a shepherd putteth asunder(divideth) the sheep from the goats." 
Matthew25:33 And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, and the goats on the left hand." 
Matthew25:34 Then shall the King say to them on his right hand: Come ye blessed children of my father, inherit ye the kingdom prepared for you from the beginning of the world." 
Matthew25:35 For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat. I thirsted, and ye gave me drink. I was harborless, and ye lodged me. I was naked and ye clothed me:" 
Matthew25:36 I was sick and ye visited me. I was in prison and ye came unto me. 
Matthew25:37 Then shall the just(righteous) answer him saying: master, when, saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? or a thirst, and gave thee drink?" 
Matthew25:38 when saw we thee harborless, and lodged thee? or naked and clothed thee?" 
Matthew25:39 or when saw we thee sick, or in prison and came unto thee?" 
Matthew25:40 And the King shall answer and say unto them: verily I say unto you: inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren: ye have done it to me. 
Matthew25:41 Then shall the King say unto them that shall be on the left hand: depart from me ye cursed, into everlasting fire, which is prepared for the devil and his angels." 
Matthew25:42 For I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat. I thirsted, and ye gave me no drink. I was harborless, and ye lodged me not." 
Matthew25:43 I was naked, and ye clothed me not. I was sick and in prison, and ye visited me not." 
Matthew25:44 Then shall they also answer him saying: master, when saw we thee an hungered, or a thirst, or harborless, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and have not ministered unto thee?" 
Matthew25:45 then shall he answer them, and say: Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me." 
Matthew25:46 And these shall go into everlasting pain: And the righteous into life eternal. 
Matthew26:1 And it followed:(came to pass) when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples:" 
Matthew26:2 Ye know that after two days shall be ester, and the son of man shall be delivered to be crucified." 
Matthew26:3 Then assembled together the chief priests and (the) scribes and seniors(the elders) of the people into the palace of the high priest, called Caiphas:" 
Matthew26:4 and held a counsel, how they might take Jesus by subtlety,(disceate) and kill him;" 
Matthew26:5 but they said, not on the holy day, lest any trouble(uproar) arise among the people." 
Matthew26:6 When Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper," 
Matthew26:7 there came unto him a woman, which had an alabaster box of precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at the board.(table)" 
Matthew26:8 When his disciples saw that, they had indignation saying: What needed this waste?(they disdained, and said: Where to serveth this waste?)" 
Matthew26:9 This ointment might have been well sold, and given to the poor." 
Matthew26:10 When Jesus understood(perceived) that, he said unto them: Why trouble ye the woman? she hath wrought a good work upon me." 
Matthew26:11 For ye shall have poor folk always with you: but me shall ye not have always. 
Matthew26:12 And in that she casted(poured) this ointment on my body, she did it to bury me withal.(with all.)" 
Matthew26:13 Verily I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel(gospell) shall be preached throughout all the world, there shall also this that she hath done, be told for a memorial of her." 
Matthew26:14 Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot went unto the chief priests," 
Matthew26:15 and said: What will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they appointed unto him thirty pieces of silver." 
Matthew26:16 And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him. 
Matthew26:17 The first day of unleavened(sweet) bread the disciples came to Jesus saying unto him: Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the ester(paschal) lamb? 
Matthew26:18 And he said: Go into the city, unto such a man, and say to him: the master saith, my time is almost come,(at hand) I will keep mine ester at thy house with my disciples." 
Matthew26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them, and made ready the ester lamb." 
Matthew26:20 When the even was come, he sat down with the twelve." 
Matthew26:21 And as they did eat, he said: Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me." 
Matthew26:22 And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him: Is it I master?" 
Matthew26:23 He answered and said: He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, (the same) shall betray me." 
Matthew26:24 The son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe be to that man, by whom the son of man shall be betrayed. It had been good for that man, if he had never been born." 
Matthew26:25 Then Judas which betrayed him, answered and said: Is it I master? He said unto him: Thou hast said." 
Matthew26:26 As they did ate,(eat) Jesus took bread and gave thanks, brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said: Take, eat, this is my body." 
Matthew26:27 And he took the cup, and gave thanks,(thanked) and gave it them, saying: Drink of it every one." 
Matthew26:28 This is my blood of the new testament, which(that) shall be shed for many, for the forgiveness(remission) of sins." 
Matthew26:29 I say unto you: I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine tree, until that day, when I shall drink it new with you in my father's kingdom." 
Matthew26:30 And when they had said grace, they went out into mount olivet." 
Matthew26:31 Then said Jesus unto them: All ye shall fall this night because of me.(all ye shall be offended by me this night) For it is written: I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad." 
Matthew26:32 But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee." 
Matthew26:33 Peter answered, and said unto him: Though all men should be hurt(offended) by thee, yet would I not be hurt.(never be offended.)" 
Matthew26:34 Jesus said unto him: Verily I say unto thee, that this same night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice." 
Matthew26:35 Peter said unto him: If I should die with thee, yet will(would) I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples." 
Matthew26:36 Then went Jesus with them into a place, which is called Gethsemane, and said unto his(the) disciples: Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder." 
Matthew26:37 And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebede, and began to wax sorrowful and to be in agony." 
Matthew26:38 Then said Jesus unto them: My soul is heavy even unto the death. Tarry ye here: and watch with me. 
Matthew26:39 And he went away a little apart, and fell flat on his face, and prayed saying: O my father, if it possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt." 
Matthew26:40 And he came unto the disciples, and found them asleep, and said to Peter: What, could ye not watch with me one hour?" 
Matthew26:41 Watch and pray, that ye fall not into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak." 
Matthew26:42 He went away once more, and prayed, saying: O my father, if this cup cannot pass away from me, but that I drink of it, thy will be fulfilled." 
Matthew26:43 And he came, and found them asleep again. For their eyes were heavy." 
Matthew26:44 And he left and went again, and prayed the third time saying the same words." 
Matthew26:45 Then came he to his disciples and said unto them: Sleep henceforth, and take your rest. Take heed the hour is at hand, and the son of man shall be betrayed(delivered) into the hands of sinners." 
Matthew26:46 Rise, let us be going, (behold,) he is at hand that shall betray me." 
Matthew26:47 While he yet spake, lo, Judas one of the twelve came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, which were sent from the chief priests and seniors(elders) of the people." 
Matthew26:48 (And) He that betrayed him, gave them a token, saying: Whosoever I kiss, that(the) same is he, lay hands on him." 
Matthew26:49 And forthwith-all he came to Jesus, and said: Hail master. And kissed him." 
Matthew26:50 And Jesus said unto him: friend, wherefore art thou come? Then came they and laid hands on Jesus and took him." 
Matthew26:51 And behold, one of them which were with Jesus, stretched out his hand and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high priest, and smote off his ear." 
Matthew26:52 Then said Jesus unto him: Put up thy sword into his sheath. For all they that lay hands on the sword, shall perish with the sword." 
Matthew26:53 Either thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my father, and he shall give me (even now) more than twelve legions of angels?" 
Matthew26:54 (But) How then should the scriptures be fulfilled, for so must it be." 
Matthew26:55 The same time said Jesus to the multitude: Ye be come out as it were unto a thief, with swords and staves for to take me: daily I sat among you teaching in the temple, and ye took me not." 
Matthew26:56 All this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. 
Matthew26:57 And they took Jesus and led him to Caiphas the high priest, where the scribes and the seniors(elders) were assembled.(gathered together)" 
Matthew26:58 (And) Peter followed him afar off, unto the high priest's place: and went in, and sat with the servants to see the end." 
Matthew26:59 The chief priests, and the seniors,(elders) and all the council, sought false witness against Jesus, for to put him to death," 
Matthew26:60 and they(but) found none: insomuch that when many false witnesses came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses," 
Matthew26:61 and said: This fellow said: I can destroy(break down) the temple of God, and build the same(it again) in three days." 
Matthew26:62 And the chief priest arose, and said to him: Answerest thou nothing? How is it that these bear witness(testify) against thee?" 
Matthew26:63 But Jesus held his peace. And the chief priest answered, and said to him: I charge thee in the name of the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be Christ the son of God." 
Matthew26:64 Jesus said to him: Thou hast said. Nevertheless I say unto you, hereafter shall ye see the son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and come in the clouds of the sky.(heaven)" 
Matthew26:65 Then the high priest rent his clothes saying? He hath blasphemed: what need we of any more witnesses? Lo,(Behold) now have ye heard his blasphemy:" 
Matthew26:66 What think ye? They answered and said: He is worthy to die.(guilty of death) 
Matthew26:67 Then spat they in his face, and beat(buffeted) him with their fists. And other smote him with the palm of their hands on the face," 
Matthew26:68 saying: Areed to us(Prophecie)(Tell us thou) Christ, who is he that smote thee?" 
Matthew26:69 Peter sat without in the palace, and a damsel came to him, saying: Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee:" 
Matthew26:70 (but) he denied before them all saying: I wot not what thou sayest. 
Matthew26:71 When he was gone out into the porch, another wench saw him, and said unto them that were there: This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth:" 
Matthew26:72 And again he denied with an oath,(that he knew the man.) and said: I know not the man." 
Matthew26:73 And after a while came unto him they that stood by, and said unto Peter: Surely thou art even one of them, for thy speech betrayeth thee." 
Matthew26:74 Then began he to curse and to swear, that he knew not the man. And immediately the cock crew." 
Matthew26:75 And Peter remembered the words of Jesu, which he said unto him: before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice: and went out at the doors and wept bitterly." 
Matthew27:1 When the morning was come, all the chief priests and seniors(the elders) of the people held a counsel against Jesu, to put him to death," 
Matthew27:2 and brought him bound and delivered him unto Pontius Pilate the deputy. 
Matthew27:3 Then when Judas which betrayed him, saw that he was condemned, he repented himself, and brought again the thirty plates of silver to the chief priests and seniors(elders)" 
Matthew27:4 saying: I have sinned betraying the innocent blood. And they said: What is that to us? see thou to that. 
Matthew27:5 And he cast down the silver plates in the temple, and departed, and went and hung himself." 
Matthew27:6 (And) The chief priests took the silver plates and said: It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood." 
Matthew27:7 And they took counsel, and bought with them a potter's field to bury strangers in." 
Matthew27:8 Wherefore that field is called, (Haceldema, that is) the field of blood, until this day." 
Matthew27:9 Then was fulfilled, that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying: And they took thirty silver plates, the value(price) of him that was priced,(valued) whom they bought of the children of Israel," 
Matthew27:10 and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me." 
Matthew27:11 Jesus stood before the deputy: and the deputy asked him, saying: Art thou the King of the Jews? Jesus said unto him: Thou sayest." 
Matthew27:12 (And) When he was accused of the chief priests and seniors,(elders) he answered nothing." 
Matthew27:13 Then said Pilate unto him: Hearest thou not how many things they lay against thee? 
Matthew27:14 and he answered him to never a word: insomuch that the deputy marveled very sore.(greatly.) 
Matthew27:15 At that feast, the deputy was wont to deliver unto the people a prisoner whom they would choose.(desire.)" 
Matthew27:16 He had then a notable prisoner called Barabbas. 
Matthew27:17 And when they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them: Whether will ye that I give loose unto you, Barabbas, or Jesus which is called Christ?" 
Matthew27:18 For he knew well, that for envy they had delivered him." 
Matthew27:19 When he was set down to give judgement, his wife sent to him, saying: Have thou nothing to do with that just man, I have suffered many things this day in my sleep(a dream) about him." 
Matthew27:20 (But) The chief priests and the seniors(elders) had persuaded the people, that they should ask Barabbas, and should destroy Jesus." 
Matthew27:21 (Then) The deputy answered and said unto them: Whether of the twain will ye that I let loose unto you? And they said, Barabbas." 
Matthew27:22 Pilate said unto them: What shall I do then with Jesus, which is called Christ? They all said to him: Let him be crucified." 
Matthew27:23 Then said the deputy: What evil hath he done? And they cried the more saying: Let him be crucified. 
Matthew27:24 When Pilate saw that he prevailed nothing, but that more business was made, he took water and washed his hands before the people saying: I am innocent of the blood of this just(righteous) person, and that ye shall see.(See ye thereto)" 
Matthew27:25 Then answered all the people, and said: His blood fall(be) on us, and on(upon) our children." 
Matthew27:26 Then let he Barabbas loose unto them, and scourged Jesus, and delivered him to be crucified." 
Matthew27:27 Then the soldiers of the deputy took Jesus unto the common hall, and gathered unto him all the company." 
Matthew27:28 And they stripped him, and put on him a purple robe," 
Matthew27:29 and plaited a crown of thorns and put upon his head, and a reed in his right hand. And bowed their knees before him, (and mocked him,) saying: Hail King of the Jews," 
Matthew27:30 and spitted upon him, and took the reed and smote him on the head." 
Matthew27:31 And when they had mocked him, they took the robe off him again, and put his own raiment(clothes) on him, and led him away to crucify him." 
Matthew27:32 And as they came(were going) out, they found a man of Cyren, named Simon: him they compelled to bear his cross." 
Matthew27:33 And (when they) came unto the place, which is called Golgotha (that is to say(by interpretation) a place of dead men's skulls)" 
Matthew27:34 they gave him vinegar to drink mixt(mingled) with gall. And when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink." 
Matthew27:35 When they had crucified him, they parted his garments, and did cast lots. To fulfil that was spoken by the prophet: They divided my garments among them: and upon my vesture have(did) cast lots." 
Matthew27:36 And they sat and watched him there. 
Matthew27:37 And they set up over his head the cause of his death written: This is Jesus the King of the Jews. 
Matthew27:38 And there were two thieves(murthurers) crucified with him, one on the right hand, and another on the left hand." 
Matthew27:39 They that passed(went) by, reviled him wagging their heads" 
Matthew27:40 and saying: Thou that destroyest(breakest down) the temple of God, and buildest it in three days save thyself. If thou be the son of God, come down from the cross." 
Matthew27:41 Likewise also the prelates(hye priests) mocking him(laughed him to scorn) with the scribes and seniors(elders) said: 
Matthew27:42 He saved(hath helped) other, himself he cannot save.(help) If he be the King of Israel: let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him." 
Matthew27:43 He trusted in God, let God(him) deliver him now if he will have him, for he said, I am the son of God." 
Matthew27:44 That same also the thieves,(murthurers) which were crucified with him cast in his teeth." 
Matthew27:45 From the sixth hour was there darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour. 
Matthew27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying: Eli Eli lama sabathani.(asbathani; or sabachthani) That is to say, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" 
Matthew27:47 Some of them that stood there, when they heard that said: This man calleth for Helias." 
Matthew27:48 And straightway(immediately) one of them ran and took a sponge and filled it full of vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink." 
Matthew27:49 Other said let be, let us see whether Helias will come and deliver him." 
Matthew27:50 Jesus cried again with a loud voice and yielded up the ghost. 
Matthew27:51 And behold the veil of the temple was(did) rent in twain from the top to the bottom,(rent in two pieces, from above till beneath) and the earth did quake," 
Matthew27:52 and the stones did rent, and graves did open, and the bodies of many saints which slept, arose:" 
Matthew27:53 and came out of the graves after his resurrection, and came into the holy city, and appeared unto many." 
Matthew27:54 When the petty captain,(centurion) and they that were with him watching Jesus, saw the earthquake and those things which happened, they feared greatly saying; Of a surety this was the son of God." 
Matthew27:55 And many women were there, beholding him afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him:" 
Matthew27:56 among the which was Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother of James and the mother of Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's children." 
Matthew27:56 among the which was Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother of James and the mother of Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's children." 
Matthew27:57 When the even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathia named Joseph, which same also was Jesus' disciple." 
Matthew27:58 He went to Pilate and begged(asked) the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered.(that the body should be given him) 
Matthew27:59 And Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth," 
Matthew27:60 and put(laid) it in his new tomb, which he had hewn out even in the rock, and rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre and departed." 
Matthew27:61 And there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. 
Matthew27:62 The next day that followeth good friday,(the day of preparing) the high priests and pharisees got themselves to Pilate," 
Matthew27:63 and said: Sir, we remember, that this deceiver said while he was yet alive. After three days I will arise again," 
Matthew27:64 command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest peradventure his disciples come, and steal him away, and say unto the people, he is risen from death: And then the last error shall be worse than the first was." 
Matthew27:65 Pilate said unto them: Take watchmen: Go and make it as sure as ye can. 
Matthew27:66 (And) They went and made the sepulchre sure with watchmen, and sealed the stone." 
Matthew28:1 The Sabbath day at even which dawneth the morrow after the Sabbath,(Upon the evening of the Sabbath holy day, which dawneth the morow of the first day of the Sabbaths,) Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the sepulchre." 
Matthew28:2 And behold there was a great earthquake. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven: and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it." 
Matthew28:3 His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow." 
Matthew28:4 (And) For fear of him the keepers(watchmen) were astunned, and became as dead men." 
Matthew28:5 The angel answered, and said to the women: Fear ye not.(Be not ye afraid) I know well(that) ye seek Jesus which was crucified:" 
Matthew28:6 he is not here: he is risen as he said. Come, and see the place where the Lord was put.(laid)" 
Matthew28:7 And go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from death. And behold, he will go before you into Galilee, there ye shall see him. Lo I have told you." 
Matthew28:8 And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great Joy. And did run to bring his disciples word. 
Matthew28:9 And as they went to tell his disciples: behold, Jesus met them saying: God speed you.(All hail.) They came and held him by the feet and worshipped him.(fell down before him)" 
Matthew28:10 Then said Jesus unto them: Be not afraid. Go and tell my brethren, that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me." 
Matthew28:11 When they were gone: behold, some of the keepers(watchmen) came in to the city, and shewed unto the prelates,(hie priests) all the things which had(that were) happened." 
Matthew28:12 And they gathered them together with the seniors,(elders) and took counsel, and gave large money unto the soldiers," 
Matthew28:13 saying: Say that his disciples came by night, and stole him away while ye slept." 
Matthew28:14 And if this come to the ruler's ears, we will pease him, and make you safe.(save you harmless.)" 
Matthew28:15 And they took the money and did as they were taught. And this saying is noised among the jews unto this day. 
Matthew28:16 Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them." 
Matthew28:17 And when they saw him, they worshipped him.(fell down before him) But some of them doubted." 
Matthew28:18 (And) Jesus came and spake unto them, saying: All power is given unto me in heaven, and in earth." 
Matthew28:19 Go therefore and teach all nations, baptising them in the name of the father, and the son, and the holy ghost:" 
Matthew28:20 Teaching them to observe(keep) all things, whatsoever I commanded you. And lo, I am with you alway even until the end of the world. [Here endeth the Gospell off S. Mathew.]" 
Mark1:1 The beginning of the Gospell of Jesu Christ the son of God," 
Mark1:2 as it is written in the prophets, behold I send my messenger before thy face which shall prepare thy way before thee." 
Mark1:3 The voice of one that crieth(a crier) in the wilderness: prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight." 
Mark1:4 John did baptise in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance,(amendment) for the remission of sins." 
Mark1:4 John did baptise in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance,(amendment) for the remission of sins." 
Mark1:5 And all the land of Jewry, and they of Jerusalem went out unto him, and were all baptised of him in the river Jordan, knowledging,(confessing) their sins." 
Mark1:6 John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a beast's skin about his loins. And he ate(did eat) locusts and wild honey," 
Mark1:6 John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a beast's skin about his loins. And he ate(did eat) locusts and wild honey," 
Mark1:7 and preached saying: a stronger than I cometh after me, whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose." 
Mark1:8 I have baptised you with water: but he shall baptise you with the holy ghost. 
Mark1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth, a city of Galilee: and was baptised of John in Jordan." 
Mark1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth, a city of Galilee: and was baptised of John in Jordan." 
Mark1:10 And immediately he came(as soon as he was come) out of the water, and(John) saw the heavens open, and the holy ghost descending upon him like a dove." 
Mark1:10 And immediately he came(as soon as he was come) out of the water, and(John) saw the heavens open, and the holy ghost descending upon him like a dove." 
Mark1:11 And there came a voice from heaven: Thou art my dear son, in whom I delight." 
Mark1:12 And immediately the spirit drove(drave) him into a wilderness: 
Mark1:13 and he was there in the wilderness forty days, and was tempted of Satan, and was with wild beasts. And the angels ministered unto him." 
Mark1:14 After that John was taken, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel(gospell) of the kingdom of God," 
Mark1:14 After that John was taken, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel(gospell) of the kingdom of God," 
Mark1:15 and saying: the time is ful come,(fulfilled) and the kingdom of God is even at hand, repent(Amend) and believe the gospel.(gospell)" 
Mark1:16 As he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting nets into the sea, for they were fishers." 
Mark1:17 And Jesus said unto them: follow me, and I will make you to be fishers of men." 
Mark1:18 And they straightway forsook their nets, and followed him." 
Mark1:19 And when he had gone a little further thence, he saw James the son of Zebede, and John his brother, even as they were in the ship dressing(mending) their nets." 
Mark1:19 And when he had gone a little further thence, he saw James the son of Zebede, and John his brother, even as they were in the ship dressing(mending) their nets." 
Mark1:19 And when he had gone a little further thence, he saw James the son of Zebede, and John his brother, even as they were in the ship dressing(mending) their nets." 
Mark1:20 And anon he called them. And they left their father Zebede in the ship with his hired servants, and went their way after him." 
Mark1:21 And they entered into Capernaum, and straight way on the Sabbath days he entered into the synagogue and taught." 
Mark1:22 And they marveled(were astonied) at his learning. For he taught them as one which(that) had power with him, and not as the scribes did." 
Mark1:23 And there was in the(their) synagogue, a man vexed with an unclean spirit, and he(that) cried" 
Mark1:24 saying: let me alone:(be) what have we to do with thee (thou) Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know (thee) what thou art, thou art (even) that holy man promised of God." 
Mark1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying: hold thy peace and come out of the man.(him.)" 
Mark1:26 And the unclean spirit tare him, (and) cried out with a loud voice, and came out of him." 
Mark1:27 And they were all amazed, insomuch that they demanded one of another among themselves, saying: what thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for he commandeth the foul spirits with power, and they obey him." 
Mark1:28 Anon(And immediately) his name(fame) spread abroad throughout all the region bordering on Galilee. 
Mark1:29 And immediately(forthwith) as soon as they were come out of the Synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John." 
Mark1:29 And immediately(forthwith) as soon as they were come out of the Synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John." 
Mark1:29 And immediately(forthwith) as soon as they were come out of the Synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John." 
Mark1:30 (And) Simon's mother-in-law lay sick of a fever, and anon they told him of her." 
Mark1:31 And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever forsook her by and by: And she ministered unto them." 
Mark1:32 And at even when the sun(son) was down, they brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils," 
Mark1:33 and all the city gathered together at the door," 
Mark1:34 and he healed many that were sick of divers diseases. And he cast out many devils and suffered not the devils(them not) to speak, because they knew him." 
Mark1:35 And in the morning very early, Jesus arose and went out into a solitary place, and there prayed." 
Mark1:36 And Simon and they that were with him followed after him. 
Mark1:37 And when they had found him, they said unto him: all men seek for thee." 
Mark1:38 And he said unto them: let us go in to the next towns, that I may preach there also: for truly I came out for that purpose." 
Mark1:39 And he preached in their synagogues, throughout all Galilee, and cast (the) devils out." 
Mark1:40 And there came a leper to him beseeching him, and kneeled down unto him, and said unto him: if thou wilt, thou arte able to(canst) make me clean." 
Mark1:41 (And) Jesus had compassion on him, and put forth his hand, touched him, and said unto him: I will, be (thou) clean." 
Mark1:42 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed." 
Mark1:43 And he charged him and sent him away forthwith 
Mark1:44 and said unto him: See that thou tell no(say nothing to any) man, but get thee hence and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, those things which Moses commanded, for a testimonial unto them." 
Mark1:45 But he (as soon as he was departed) began to tell many things and to publish the deed, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places, and they came to him from every quarter." 
Mark2:1 After a few days he entered into Capernaum again, and it was noised that he was in a house:" 
Mark2:2 And anon many gathered together,(togedder) insomuch that now there was no room to receive them: no, not in places(not so much as) about the door. And he preached(the word) unto them." 
Mark2:3 And there came unto him that brought one sick of the palsy, borne of four men:" 
Mark2:4 and because they could not come nigh unto him for press: They opened(uncovered) the roof of the house where he was. And when they had broken it open, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay." 
Mark2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the sick of the palsy, son thy sins are forgiven thee." 
Mark2:6 (And) There were certain of the scribes sitting, (there) and reasoning in their hearts:" 
Mark2:7 how doth this fellow so blaspheme? Who can forgiven sins, but God only?" 
Mark2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit, that they so reasoned in themselves, he said unto them: why think ye such things in your hearts?" 
Mark2:9 Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins are forgiven thee: or to say, arise, take up thy bed and walk?" 
Mark2:10 That ye may know that the son of man hath power in earth to forgive sins, he spake unto the sick of the palsy:" 
Mark2:11 I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed, and get thee hence into thine own house." 
Mark2:12 And by and by he arose, took up his(the) bed, and went forth before them all: insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God saying: we never saw it on this fashion." 
Mark2:13 And he went out again unto the sea, and all the people resorted unto him, and he taught them." 
Mark2:14 And as Jesus passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphey, sit at the receipt of custom and said unto him: follow me. And he arose and followed him." 
Mark2:15 And it came to pass, as Jesus sat at meat in his house, many publicans and sinners sat at meat also with Jesus and his disciples. For there were many that followed him." 
Mark2:16 And when the scribes and pharisees saw him eat with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples: how is it, that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners?" 
Mark2:17 When Jesus heard that, he said unto them. The whole have no need of the Physician: but the sick. I came to call the sinners to repentance, and not the just.(I came not to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance.)" 
Mark2:18 And the disciples of John and of the pharisees did fast, and they(therefore) came and said unto him: Why do the disciples of John and of the pharisees fast, and thy disciples fast not." 
Mark2:18 And the disciples of John and of the pharisees did fast, and they(therefore) came and said unto him: Why do the disciples of John and of the pharisees fast, and thy disciples fast not." 
Mark2:19 And Jesus said unto them: can the children of a wedding fast, while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast." 
Mark2:20 But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them and then shall they fast in those days. 
Mark2:21 Also no man soweth a piece of new cloth unto an old garment, for then taketh he away the new piece from the old, and so is the rent worse." 
Mark2:22 In like wise, no man poureth new wine into old vessels, for if he do the new wine breaketh the vessels, and the wine runneth out, and the vessels are marred. But new wine must be poured into new vessels." 
Mark2:23 And it chanced (again) that he went thorow the corn fields on the Sabbath day, and his disciples as they went on their way, began to pluck the ears of corn." 
Mark2:24 And the pharisees said unto him: Take heed(behold) why do they on the Sabbath day that which is unlawful?(not lawful?) 
Mark2:25 And he said to them: have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was an hungered both he and they that were with him?" 
Mark2:26 How they(he) went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and ate(did eat) the hallowed loaves,(shewbreads) which is not lawful but for the priests only to eat: and gave also to them which were with him?" 
Mark2:27 And he said to them: the Sabbath day was made for man,(man's sake) and not man for the Sabbath day.(not.. for the Sabbath's sake)" 
Mark2:28 Wherefore is the son of man(is) Lord even of(over) the Sabbath day. 
Mark3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man (there) which had a withered hand:" 
Mark3:2 and they watched him to see, if(whether) he would heal him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him." 
Mark3:3 And he said unto the man which had the withered hand: arise and stand in the midst. 
Mark3:4 And he said to them: whether is it lawful to do a good deed on the Sabbath day, or an evil? to save a man's life, or to kill? But they held their peace." 
Mark3:5 And he looked round about on them angerly mourning on the blindness of their hearts. And said to the man: stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth:(out.) And the(his) hand was restored, even as whole as the other." 
Mark3:6 (And) The pharisees departed, and straightway gathered a counsel with them that belonged to Herod against him, that they might destroy him." 
Mark3:7 And Jesus avoided with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude followed him from Galilee and from Jewry," 
Mark3:8 and from Hierusalem, and from Idumea, and from beyond Jordan: and they that dwelled about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude: which when they had heard what things he did, came unto him." 
Mark3:9 And he commanded his disciples, that a ship should wait on him, because of the people, lest they should throng him." 
Mark3:10 For he had healed many, insomuch that they pressed upon him, for to touch him, as many as had plagues." 
Mark3:11 And when the unclean(foule) spirits saw him, they fell down before him, and cried saying: thou art the son of God:" 
Mark3:12 And he straightly charged them that they should not utter him.(make him known) 
Mark3:13 And he went up into a mountain, and called unto him whom he would, and they came unto him." 
Mark3:14 And he ordained the twelve that they should be with him, and that he might send them to preach." 
Mark3:15 And that they might have power to heal sicknesses and to cast out devils. 
Mark3:16 And he gave Simon, to name, Peter." 
Mark3:17 And he called James the son of Zebedee, and John James brother, and gave them Bonargs to name, which is to say the sons of thunder." 
Mark3:17 And he called James the son of Zebedee, and John James brother, and gave them Bonargs to name, which is to say the sons of thunder." 
Mark3:17 And he called James the son of Zebedee, and John James brother, and gave them Bonargs to name, which is to say the sons of thunder." 
Mark3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartelemew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphey, and Taddeus, and Simon of Cane," 
Mark3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartelemew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphey, and Taddeus, and Simon of Cane," 
Mark3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartelemew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphey, and Taddeus, and Simon of Cane," 
Mark3:19 and Judas Iscarioth, which same also betrayed him." 
Mark3:20 And they came unto house, and the people assembled together again, so greatly that they had not leisure so much as to eat bread." 
Mark3:21 And when they that longed unto him heard of it, they went out to hold him. For they said, he is too fervent.(For they thought he had been beside him self.)" 
Mark3:22 And the scribes which came from Jerusalem, said: he hath Beelzebub, and by the power of the chief devil, casteth out devils." 
Mark3:23 And he called them unto him, and in similitudes said unto them. How can Satan drive out Satan?" 
Mark3:24 For if a realm be divided against itself, that realm cannot endure." 
Mark3:25 And(Or) if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot continue:" 
Mark3:26 So if Satan make insurrection against himself, and be divided,(at variance) he cannot continue,(cann't endure) but hath(is at) an end." 
Mark3:27 No man can enter into a strong man's house, and take away his goods, except he first bind that strong man and then spoil his house." 
Mark3:28 Verily I say unto you all sins shall be forgiven unto men's children: and blasphemy, wherewith they blaspheme:" 
Mark3:29 but he that blasphemeth the holy ghost, shall never have forgiveness: but is in danger of eternal damnation.(guilty of the everlasting judgment)" 
Mark3:30 For(because) they said, he had an unclean spirit." 
Mark3:31 And there(Then) came his mother and his brethren, and stood without, and sent unto him and called him:" 
Mark3:32 And the people sat about him, and said unto him: behold thy mother and thy brethren seek for thee without." 
Mark3:33 And he answered them, saying: who is my mother, and my brethren?" 
Mark3:34 And he looked round about on his disciples, which sat in compass about him, and said: behold my mother, and my brethren:" 
Mark3:35 For whosoever doeth the will of God, he is my brother, my sister and mother." 
Mark4:1 And he began again to teach by the seaside. And there gathered together unto him much people, so greatly that he entered in to a ship, and sat in the sea, and all the people was by the seaside on the shore:" 
Mark4:2 And he taught them many things in similitudes, and said unto them in his doctrine." 
Mark4:3 Hearken to. Behold; The sower went out to sow," 
Mark4:4 and it fortuned(happened) as he sowed, that some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up." 
Mark4:5 Some fell on a stony ground: where it had not much earth: and by and by sprang up, because it had not depth of earth:" 
Mark4:6 and(but) as soon as the sun was up it caught heat: and because it had not rooting it withered away. 
Mark4:7 And some fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, so that it gave no fruit." 
Mark4:8 And some fell upon good ground: and did yield fruit that sprang and grew: and brought forth some thirty fold, some forty(sixty) fold, and some an hundred fold." 
Mark4:9 And he said unto them: He that hath ears to hear, let him hear." 
Mark4:10 (And) When he was alone, they that were, about him with the twelve asked him of the similitude." 
Mark4:11 And he said unto them: To you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: But unto them that are without, shall all things be done in similitudes:" 
Mark4:12 that when they see, they shall see, and not discern: and when they hear they shall hear, and not understand: lest at any time they should turn, and their sins should be forgiven them." 
Mark4:13 And he said unto them: Perceive ye not this similitude. And how ye shall know all similitudes?(how then should ye understand all other similitudes?) 
Mark4:14 The sower soweth the word. 
Mark4:15 These be they which(And they that) are by the ways side, where the word is sown, (are they) to whom as soon as they have heard it, cometh (immediately) the devil(satan) and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts." 
Mark4:16 And these also are(And likewise) they that are sown on the stony ground: which when they have heard the word, at once they receive it with joy,(gladness)" 
Mark4:17 yet have no root(rotes) in themselves, and so endure but for a season:(time: and anon) afterward as soon as any trouble or(and) persecution ariseth for the word's sake, anon(immediately) they fall.(are offended)" 
Mark4:18 And these are they that are sown among the thorns, which(are such as) hear the word of God," 
Mark4:19 and the care of this world and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things enter in, and choke the word, and it is made unfruitful." 
Mark4:20 And these(those) that were sown in good ground, are they that hear the word and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirty fold some sixty fold, some an hundred fold." 
Mark4:21 And he said unto them: is the candle lighted, to be put under a bushel, or under the bord:(table: and) is it not therefore(rather) lighted that it should(to) be put on a candlestick?" 
Mark4:22 For there is nothing so privy,(nothing hid) that shall not be opened: neither so secret, but that it shall come abroad.(that shall not be known)" 
Mark4:23 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear." 
Mark4:24 And he said unto them: take heed what ye hear. With what measure ye mete, with the same shall it be measured unto you again. And unto you that have(hear) shall more be given." 
Mark4:25 For unto him that hath, shall it be given: And unto(from) him that hath not, shall be taken away, even that he hath." 
Mark4:26 And he said: so is the kingdom of God, even as if a man should sow seed in the ground," 
Mark4:27 and should sleep and rise up night and day: and the seed should spring, and grow up while he is not ware." 
Mark4:28 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself, first the blade, then the ears, after that full corn in the ears." 
Mark4:29 And as soon as the fruit is brought forth, anon he thrusteth in the sickle because that harvest is come." 
Mark4:30 And he said: whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it? 
Mark4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which when it is sown in the earth, is the least of all seeds that be in the earth:" 
Mark4:32 And(but) after that it is sown it groweth up, and is greatest of all herbs: and beareth great branches so that the fowls of the air may dwell under the shadow of it." 
Mark4:33 And with many such similitudes he preached the word unto them, after as they might hear it." 
Mark4:34 And without similitude spake he nothing unto them. But when they were apart, he expounded all things to his disciples." 
Mark4:35 And the same day when even was come he said unto them: let us pass over into(unto) the other side. 
Mark4:36 And they late the people depart(left the people) and took him even as he was in the ship. (And) There were also with him other ships. 
Mark4:37 And there arose a great storm of wind, and dashed the waves into the ship, so that it was full." 
Mark4:38 And he was in the stern asleep on a pillow. And they awoke him, and said to him: Master, carest thou not that we perish?" 
Mark4:39 And he rose up and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea: peace and be still. And the wind allayed, and there followed a great calm:" 
Mark4:40 and he said unto them: why are ye (so) fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? 
Mark4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another: what fellow is this? for both wind and sea obey him." 
Mark5:1 And they came over to the other side of the sea into the country of the Gaderens. 
Mark5:2 And when he was come out of the ship, anon (there) met him out of the graves a man possessed of an unclean spirit," 
Mark5:3 which had his abiding among the graves. And no man could bind him (no not) with chains," 
Mark5:4 because that when he was often bound with fetters and chains, he plucked the chains asunder, and brake the fetters in pieces: Neither could any man tame him." 
Mark5:5 And always both night and day he cried in the mountains and in the graves and beat himself with stones. 
Mark5:6 When he had spied Jesus afar off, he ran, and worshipped him,(fell down before him)" 
Mark5:7 and cried with a loud voice and said: what have I to do, with thee Jesus the son of the most highest God? I require thee in the name of God, that thou torment me not." 
Mark5:8 For he had said unto him: Come forth(out) of the man thou foul spirit. 
Mark5:9 And he asked him: what is thy name? and he answered him, (saying:) my name is Legion, for we are many." 
Mark5:10 And he prayed him instantly, that he would not send them away out of that region.(the country.)" 
Mark5:11 (And) There was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding," 
Mark5:12 and all the devils besought him saying: send us into the herd of swine, that we may enter into them." 
Mark5:13 And anon Jesus gave them leave; And the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine. And the herd startled, and ran headlong into the sea. They were about two thousand swine, and they were drowned in the sea." 
Mark5:14 And the swine herders fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And they came out for to see, what had happened;" 
Mark5:15 And they came out to Jesus, and they saw him that was vexed with the fiend and had the legion sit, both clothed and in his right mind, and were afraid." 
Mark5:16 And they that saw it told them, how it had happened unto him that was possessed with the devil: and also of the swine." 
Mark5:17 And they began to pray him, that he would depart from their coasts." 
Mark5:18 And when he was come into the ship, he that had the devil prayed him that he might be with him." 
Mark5:19 (Howbeit) Jesus would not suffer him but said unto him: go home into thine own house and to thy friends, and shew them what (great) things the Lord hath done unto thee, and how he had compassion on(mercy upon) thee." 
Mark5:20 And he departed, and began to publish in the ten cities, what (great) things Jesus had done unto him, and all men did marvel." 
Mark5:21 And when Jesus was come over(Iesus passed over) again in the(by) ship unto the other side, much people gathered unto him, and he was nigh unto the sea." 
Mark5:22 And behold, there came unto him one of the rulers of the Synagogue, whose name was Jairus: and when he saw him, he fell down at his feet," 
Mark5:23 and besought him greatly saying: my daughter lieth at point of death, I would thou wouldst come and lay thy hand on her, that she might be safe and live." 
Mark5:24 And he went with him, and much people followed him, and thronged him." 
Mark5:25 And there was a (certain) woman, which was diseased of an issue of blood twelve year," 
Mark5:26 and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and felt none amendment at all:(was not helped) But waxed worse and worse." 
Mark5:27 When she had heard of Jesus: she came into the press behind him, and touched his garment." 
Mark5:28 For she said:(thought:) If I may but touch his clothing, I shall be whole." 
Mark5:29 And straight way her fountain of blood was dried up, and she felt in her body, that she was healed of the plague." 
Mark5:30 And Jesus immediately felt in himself, the virtue that went out of him, and turned him round about in the press, and said: Who touched my clothes?" 
Mark5:31 And his disciples said unto him: thou seest the people thrusting thee on every side, and yet sayest:(askest:) who did touch me?" 
Mark5:32 And he looked round about, for to see her that had done that thing." 
Mark5:33 The woman feared and trembled, for she knew what was done within her. And she came and fell down before him and told him the truth of everything." 
Mark5:34 And he said unto her: Daughter, thy faith hath saved(made) thee, (whole) go in peace, and be whole of thy plague." 
Mark5:35 While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house, certain which said: thy daughter is dead: why diseasest thou the Master any further?" 
Mark5:36 As soon as Jesus heard that word spoken, he said unto the ruler of the Synagogue: Be not afraid, only believe." 
Mark5:37 And he suffered no man to follow him more than Peter, and James and John James brother.(the brother of James)" 
Mark5:37 And he suffered no man to follow him more than Peter, and James and John James brother.(the brother of James)" 
Mark5:37 And he suffered no man to follow him more than Peter, and James and John James brother.(the brother of James)" 
Mark5:38 And he came unto the house of the ruler of the Synagogue, and saw the wondering(business) and them that wept and wailed greatly;" 
Mark5:39 And he went in and said unto them: Why make ye this ado and weep? The maiden is not dead, but sleepeth." 
Mark5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. Then he put them all out, and took the father and the mother of the maiden, and them that were with him, and entered in where the maiden lay;" 
Mark5:41 And took the maiden by the hand, and said unto her: Tabitha, cumi: which is by interpretation: maiden I say unto thee, arise." 
Mark5:42 And straight the maiden arose, and went on her feet. For she was of the age of twelve year. And they were astonied at it out of measure." 
Mark5:43 And he charged them straitly that no man should know of it. And commanded to give her meat. 
Mark6:1 And he departed thence, and came into his own country, and his disciples followed him." 
Mark6:2 And when the Sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue. And many that heard him were astonied,(marveled at his learning) and said: From whence hath he these things? and what wisdom is this that is given unto him? and such virtues that are wrought by his hands?" 
Mark6:3 Is not this that carpenter Mary's son, the brother of James, and Joses and (of) Juda and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were hurt(offended) by the reason of him." 
Mark6:3 Is not this that carpenter Mary's son, the brother of James, and Joses and (of) Juda and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were hurt(offended) by the reason of him." 
Mark6:4 And Jesus said unto them: a prophet is not despised but in his own country, and among his own kin, and among them that are of the same household." 
Mark6:5 And he could there shew no miracles but laid his hands upon a few sick folk and healed them. 
Mark6:6 And he marveled at their unbelief. And he went about by the towns that lie in circuit,(lay on every side) teaching." 
Mark6:7 And he called the twelve, and began to send them, two and two, and gave them power over unclean spirits." 
Mark6:8 And commanded them, that they should take nothing unto their Journey, save a rod only: Neither scrip, neither bread, neither money in their purses:" 
Mark6:9 but should be shod with sandals. And that they should not put on two coats. 
Mark6:10 And (he) said unto them: wheresoever ye enter into an house, there abide till ye depart thence." 
Mark6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart thence, shake off the dust that is under your feet, for a remembrance(witness) unto them. I say verily unto you, it shallbe easier for Sodom and Gomor, at the day of judgement, than for that city." 
Mark6:12 And they went out and preached, that they should repent:" 
Mark6:13 and they cast out many devils. And they anointed, many that were sick with oil and healed them." 
Mark6:14 And king Herod heard of him, for his name was spread abroad; And he said: John Baptist is risen again from death, and therefore miracles are wrought in(by) him." 
Mark6:14 And king Herod heard of him, for his name was spread abroad; And he said: John Baptist is risen again from death, and therefore miracles are wrought in(by) him." 
Mark6:15 Other said, it is Helias: and some said: it is a prophet, or as one of the prophets." 
Mark6:16 But when Herod heard of him, he said: it is John whom I beheaded, he is risen from death again." 
Mark6:16 But when Herod heard of him, he said: it is John whom I beheaded, he is risen from death again." 
Mark6:17 For Herod himself, had sent forth, and had taken John, and bound him and cast him into prison for Herodias' sake which was his brother Philip's wife. For he had married her." 
Mark6:17 For Herod himself, had sent forth, and had taken John, and bound him and cast him into prison for Herodias' sake which was his brother Philip's wife. For he had married her." 
Mark6:18 John said unto Herod: It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. 
Mark6:18 John said unto Herod: It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. 
Mark6:19 Herodias laid wait for him, and would have killed him, but she could not." 
Mark6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing that he was (a) just (man) and (an) holy, and gave him reverence; And when he heard him he did many things, and heard him gladly." 
Mark6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing that he was (a) just (man) and (an) holy, and gave him reverence; And when he heard him he did many things, and heard him gladly." 
Mark6:21 And(But) when a convenient day was come: Herod on his birthday made a supper to the lords, captains, and chief estates of Galilee." 
Mark6:22 And the daughter of the same(said) Herodias came in and danced, and pleased Herod and them that sat at board also. Then the king said unto the maiden: ask of me what thou wilt, and I will give it thee." 
Mark6:23 And he sware unto her, whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will give it thee, even unto the one half of my kingdom." 
Mark6:24 And she went forth and said to her mother: what shall I ask? And she said: John baptist's head. 
Mark6:24 And she went forth and said to her mother: what shall I ask? And she said: John baptist's head. 
Mark6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked saying: I will, that thou give me by and by in a charger the head of John baptist." 
Mark6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked saying: I will, that thou give me by and by in a charger the head of John baptist." 
Mark6:26 And the king was sorry yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat at supper also, he would not put her beside her purpose." 
Mark6:27 And immediately the king sent the hangman and commanded his head to be brought in. 
Mark6:28 And he went and beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head in a charger and gave it to the maiden, and the maiden gave it to her mother." 
Mark6:29 (And) When his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his body, and put it in a tomb." 
Mark6:30 And the apostles gathered themselves together to Jesus, and told him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught." 
Mark6:31 And he said unto them: come ye apart into the wilderness, and rest awhile. For there were many comers and goers. And(that) they had no leisure wos for(so much as) to eat." 
Mark6:32 And he went by ship aside out of the way into a desert place. 
Mark6:33 And(But) the people spied them when they departed: and many knew him, and they hasted(ran) afoot thither out of every city,(all cities) and came thither before them; And came together unto him." 
Mark6:34 And Jesus went out and saw much people, and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep which had no shepherd. And he began to teach them many things." 
Mark6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him saying: this is a desert place, and now the day is far passed," 
Mark6:36 let them depart, that they may go into the country round about, and into the towns, and buy them bread: for they have nothing to eat." 
Mark6:37 He answered and said unto them: give ye them to eat. And they said unto him: shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them to eat?" 
Mark6:38 He said unto them: how many loaves have ye? Go and look. And when they had searched, they said: five and two fishes." 
Mark6:39 And he commanded them to make them all sit down, by companies upon the green grass." 
Mark6:40 And they sat down here a row and there a row, by hundreds and by fifties." 
Mark6:41 And he took the five loaves and the two fishes; And looked up to heaven and blest,(blessed,)(gave thanks) and brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to put before them, and the two fishes he divided among them all." 
Mark6:42 And they all ate,(did eat) and were satisfied." 
Mark6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the gobbets(broken pieces) and of the fishes. 
Mark6:44 And they that ate were about five thousand men. 
Mark6:45 And straightway he caused his disciples to go into the ship, and to go over the water before unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people." 
Mark6:46 And as soon as he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray." 
Mark6:47 And when even was come the ship was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land," 
Mark6:48 and he saw them troubled in rowing, for the wind was contrary unto them. And about the fourth quarter of the night, he came unto them, walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them." 
Mark6:49 When they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out:" 
Mark6:50 For they all saw him, and were afraid. And anon he talked with them, and said unto them: be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid." 
Mark6:51 And he went up unto them into the ship, and the wind ceased, and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and marveled.(they were astonnied, and marveled exceedingly:)" 
Mark6:52 For they remembered not of the loaves, because their hearts were blinded." 
Mark6:53 And they came over, and went into the land of Genazareth, and drew up into the haven." 
Mark6:54 And as soon as they were come out of the ship, straight they knew him," 
Mark6:55 and ran forth throughout all the region round a about, and began to carry about in beds all that were sick, when(to the place where) they heard tell that he was there." 
Mark6:56 And whithersoever he entered into the towns, or cities, or villages, they laid their sick in the streets, and prayed him, that they might touch and it were but the edge of his vesture.(hem of his garment) And as many as touched him were safe.(made whole)" 
Mark7:1 And the pharisees came together unto him, and divers of the scribes which came from Jerusalem." 
Mark7:2 And when they saw certain of his disciples eat bread with common hands (that is to say, with unwashen hands) they complained." 
Mark7:3 For the pharisees, and all the jews, except they wash their hands often, eat not, observing the traditions of the seniors.(elders.)" 
Mark7:4 And when they come from the market, except they wash themselves they eat not. And many other things there be, which they have taken upon them to observe, as the washing of cups and cruses, and of brazen vessels, and of tables." 
Mark7:5 Then asked him the pharisees and scribes: why walk not thy disciples according to the traditions of the seniors,(elders) but eat bread with unwashen hands?" 
Mark7:6 He answered and said unto them: well prophesied hath Esaias of you hypocrites as it is written: This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me:" 
Mark7:7 In vain they worship me,(in vain do they serve me) teaching doctrines which are nothing but the commandments of men," 
Mark7:8 for ye lay(leave) the commandment of God apart, and ye observe(keep) the traditions of men as the washing of cruses and of cups, and many other such like things ye do." 
Mark7:9 And he said unto them: well, ye put away(cast aside) the commandment of God, to maintain your own traditions." 
Mark7:10 For Moses said: Honour thy father and thy mother: and whosoever saith evil of his(curseth) father or mother, let him die for it." 
Mark7:11 But ye say: a man shall say to his father or mother Corban, that is, whatsoever thing I offer, that same doeth profit thee.(which is: that thou desirest of me to help thee with is given God.)(The thing that I should help them withall, is given unto God)" 
Mark7:12 And ye suffer no more that a man do anything for his father or mother,(And so ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother)" 
Mark7:13 and thus have ye made the commandment(making the word) of God of none effect through your own traditions which ye have ordained. And many such things ye do. 
Mark7:14 And he called all the people unto him, and said unto them: Hearken unto me every one of you and understand:" 
Mark7:15 There is nothing with out a man that can defile him when it entereth into him, but those things which proceed out of him are those which defile a(the) man." 
Mark7:16 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear." 
Mark7:17 And when he came into a house away from the people, his disciples asked him of the similitude," 
Mark7:18 and he said unto them: Do ye than lack(Are ye so without) understanding: Do ye not yet perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into a man, it cannot defile him," 
Mark7:19 because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly: and goeth out into the draught that purgeth out all meats." 
Mark7:20 And he said that defileth a man which cometh out of a man. 
Mark7:21 For from within even out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts: advoutry, fornication,(whoredom) murder," 
Mark7:22 theft, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, uncleanness, and a wicked eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness:" 
Mark7:23 All these evil things, come from within, and defile a man." 
Mark7:24 And from thence he rose and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and entered into an house, and would that no man should have known of him: But he could not be hid." 
Mark7:25 For a certain woman whose daughter had a foul spirit when she heard of him, (and) came and fell down at his feet." 
Mark7:26 The woman was a greek out of Syrophenicia, and she besought him that he would cast out the devil out of her daughter." 
Mark7:27 (And) Jesus said unto her: let the children first be fed. (For) It is not meet, to take the children's bread, and to cast it unto whelps." 
Mark7:28 She answered and said unto him: even so Master, nevertheless, the whelps also eat under the table of the children's crumbs." 
Mark7:29 And he said unto her: for this saying go thy way, the devil is gone out of thy daughter." 
Mark7:30 And when she was come home to her house she found the devil departed, and her daughter lying on the bed." 
Mark7:31 And he departed again from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, and came unto the sea of Galilee thorow the midst(middes) of the coasts of the ten cities." 
Mark7:32 And they brought unto him one that was deaf, and stammered(had impediment) in his speech, and prayed him to lay his hand upon him." 
Mark7:33 And he took him aside from the people, and put his fingers in his ears, and did spit, and touched his tongue," 
Mark7:34 and looked up to heaven and sighted, and said unto him: ephatha that is to say, be opened." 
Mark7:35 And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain." 
Mark7:36 And he commanded them that they should tell no man. But the more he forbade them, so much the more a great deal they published it." 
Mark7:37 And were beyond measure astonied,(marvelled out of measure) saying: He hath done all things well, and hath made both the deaf to hear and the dumb to speak." 
Mark8:1 In those days when there was a very great company,(much people there) and had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to him and said unto them:" 
Mark8:2 My heart melteth(I have compassion) on this people, because they have now been(taried) with me three days, and have nothing to eat:" 
Mark8:3 And if I should send them away fasting to their own houses, they should faint by the way. For divers of them came from far." 
Mark8:4 And his disciples answered him: from whence might(where should) a man suffice them with(have) bread here in the wilderness? (to satisfy these) 
Mark8:5 And he asked them: how many loaves have ye? They said: seven. 
Mark8:6 And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, gave thanks, brake, and gave to his disciples, to set before them. And they (did) set them before the people." 
Mark8:7 And they had a few small fishes. And he blessed them and(and when he had given thanks) commanded them also to be set before them. 
Mark8:8 (And) They ate and were sufficed,(satisfied) and they took up of the broken meat that was left, seven baskets full." 
Mark8:9 (And) They that ate were in number about four thousand. And he sent them away. 
Mark8:10 And anon he took(entered into a) ship with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha." 
Mark8:11 And the pharisees came forth, and began to dispute with him, and sought(seeking) of him a sign from heaven (and) tempting him," 
Mark8:12 and he sighed in his spirit and said: why doth this generation seek a sign? Verily I say unto you, there shall no sign be given unto this generation." 
Mark8:13 And he left them and went into the ship again, and departed over the water.(passed over)" 
Mark8:14 And they had forgotten to take bread with them, neither had they in the ship with them more than one loaf." 
Mark8:15 And he charged them saying: take heed, (and) beware of the leaven of the pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod." 
Mark8:16 And they reasoned among themselves saying: we have no bread. 
Mark8:17 And when Jesus knew that he said unto them: why take ye thought because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand? Have ye your hearts yet blinded?" 
Mark8:18 Have ye eyes and see not? and have ye ears and hear not? Do ye not remember? 
Mark8:19 When I brake five loaves among five thousand men: How many baskets full of broken meat took ye up? They said unto him, twelve." 
Mark8:20 When I brake seven among four thousand how many baskets of the leavings of broken meat took ye up? They said, seven." 
Mark8:21 And he said unto them: how is it that ye understand not? 
Mark8:22 And he came to Bethsaida, and they brought a blind man unto him and desired him, to touch him." 
Mark8:23 And he caught the blind by the hand, and led him out of the town, and spat in his eyes and put his hands upon him, and asked him if(whether) he saw anything,(ought.)" 
Mark8:24 and he looked up and said: I see (the) men; For I see them walk as they were trees. 
Mark8:25 After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him see. And he was restored to his sight, and saw every man clearly." 
Mark8:26 And he sent him home to his own house saying: neither go into the town, nor tell it any in the town." 
Mark8:27 And Jesus went out and his disciples into the towns that long to the city called Cesarea Philippi, and by the way he asked his disciples saying: whom do men say that I am?" 
Mark8:28 (And) They answered: some say that thou art John Baptist: some say Helias, and some one of the prophets." 
Mark8:28 (And) They answered: some say that thou art John Baptist: some say Helias, and some one of the prophets." 
Mark8:29 And he said unto them: But whom say ye that I am? Peter answered and said unto him: Thou art very Christ. 
Mark8:30 And he charged them, that they should tell no man of it." 
Mark8:31 And he began to declare unto(teach) them, how that the son of man must suffer many things, and should be reproved(be cast out) of the seniors(elders) and of the high priests and scribes, and should be killed, and after three days arise again." 
Mark8:32 And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him aside, and began to chide him." 
Mark8:33 (Then) He turned about, and looked on his disciples, and rebuked Peter saying: Go after me Satan. For thou savourest not the things of God but the things of men." 
Mark8:34 And he called the people unto him, with his disciples also, and said unto them. Whosoever will follow me, let him forsake(deny) himself, and take up his cross, and follow me." 
Mark8:35 For whosoever will save his life, shall lose it. But whosoever shall lose(loseth) his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." 
Mark8:36 What shall it profit(What helpeth) a man, if he should win all the world and lose his own soul?(yet toke harme in his soule?)" 
Mark8:37 or else what shall a man give, to redeem his soul again?(withall?)" 
Mark8:38 Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words, among this advoutrous and sinful generation: of him shall the son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his father with the holy angels." 
Mark9:1 And he said unto them: Verily I say unto you: There be some of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come with power." 
Mark9:2 And after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up into an high mountain out of the way alone, and he was transfigured before them." 
Mark9:2 And after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up into an high mountain out of the way alone, and he was transfigured before them." 
Mark9:2 And after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up into an high mountain out of the way alone, and he was transfigured before them." 
Mark9:3 And his raiment did shine, and was made very white, even as snow: so white as no fuller can make upon the earth." 
Mark9:4 And there appeared unto them Helias with Moses: and they talked with Jesu. 
Mark9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesu: Master,(Rabbi) here is good being for us, let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Helias." 
Mark9:6 And wist(knew) not what he said. For they were afraid. 
Mark9:7 And there was a cloud that shadowed them. And a voice came out of the cloud saying: This is my dear son, hear him." 
Mark9:8 And suddenly, they looked round about them, and saw no man more, but(than) Jesus only. (with them)" 
Mark9:9 (And) As they came down from the hill,(mountain) he charged them, that they should tell no man what they had seen, till the son of man were risen from death again." 
Mark9:10 And they kept that saying within them, and demanded one of another, what that rising from death again should mean?" 
Mark9:11 And they asked him saying: why then Say the scribes, that Helias must first come?" 
Mark9:12 He answered and said unto them: Helias(verily shall first come and restore) at his first coming, shall bring all things again into good order: And even so(also as) is it written of the son of man, that he shall suffer many things, and shall be set at nought.(despised)" 
Mark9:13 And(Moreover) I say unto you, that Helias is come, and they have done unto him whatsoever pleased them, as it is written of him." 
Mark9:14 And he came to his disciples, and saw much people about them, and the scribes disputing with them." 
Mark9:15 And straightway all the people (when they) beheld him and were amazed,(astonied) and ran to him, and saluted him." 
Mark9:16 And he said unto the scribes: What dispute ye with them? 
Mark9:17 And one of the company(people) answered and said: Master I have brought my son unto thee, which hath a dumb spirit." 
Mark9:18 And whensoever he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away. And I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out, and they could not." 
Mark9:19 He answered him and said: O generation without faith, how long shall I be with you. How long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me." 
Mark9:20 And they brought him unto him. And as soon as the spirit saw him, he tare him. And he fell down on the ground wallowing: And foaming." 
Mark9:21 And he asked his father: how long is it ago, since this hath happened him? And he said, of a child." 
Mark9:22 And often times casteth him into the fire, and also into the water, to destroy him. But if thou canst do anything, have mercy on us, and help us." 
Mark9:23 (And) Jesus said unto him: yea if thou couldest believe, all things are possible to him that believeth." 
Mark9:24 And straight way the father of the child cried with tears saying: Lord I believe, succor(help) mine unbelief." 
Mark9:25 When Jesus saw that the people came running together unto him, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him: Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee come out of him, and enter no more into him." 
Mark9:26 And the spirit cried, and rent him sore and came out: And he was as one that had been dead, insomuch that many said, he is dead." 
Mark9:27 But Jesus caught his hand, and lift him up, and he rose." 
Mark9:28 And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him secretly: why could not we cast him out?" 
Mark9:29 And he said unto them: this kind can by no other means come forth, but by prayer and fasting." 
Mark9:30 And they departed thence, and took their journey thorow Galilee, and would not, that any man should have known it." 
Mark9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them: The son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him, and after that he is killed he shall arise again the third day." 
Mark9:32 But they wist not what that saying meant, and were afraid to ask him." 
Mark9:33 And he came to Capernaum, and when he was come to house, he said to(asked) them: what was it that ye disputed between you by the way?" 
Mark9:34 And they held their peace (for by the way they reasoned among themselves, who should be the chiefest)" 
Mark9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve unto him, and said to them: if any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant unto all." 
Mark9:36 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them, and took him in his arms and said unto them:" 
Mark9:37 Whosoever receive any such a child in my name, receiveth me:" 
Mark9:38 And whosoever receiveth me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. John answered him, saying: Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, which followeth not us and we forbade him, because he followeth us not." 
Mark9:38 And whosoever receiveth me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. John answered him, saying: Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, which followeth not us and we forbade him, because he followeth us not." 
Mark9:39 But Jesus said: forbid him not. For there is no man that shall do a miracle in my name, and(that) can speak lightly evil(can lightly speak evil) of me." 
Mark9:40 Whosoever is not against you, is on your part." 
Mark9:41 And whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink for my name's sake because ye are belonging to Christe, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward." 
Mark9:42 And whosoever shall hurt(offend) one of these little ones, that believe in me, it were better for him, that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were cast into the sea." 
Mark9:43 And(Wherefore) if thy hand offend thee, cut him off. It is better for thee, to enter into life maimed, than to go, with(having) two hands into hell, into fire that never shall be quenched,(everlasting fire)" 
Mark9:44 where their worm dieth not, and the fire never goeth out." 
Mark9:45 And(Likewise) if thy foot offend thee, cut him off. (For) It is better for thee to go halt into life, than with(having) two feet to be cast into hell, into fire that never shall be quenched:(fire everlasting)" 
Mark9:46 where their worm dieth not, and the fire never goeth out?" 
Mark9:47 And(Even so) if thine eye offend thee pluck him out. It is better for thee to go into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire:" 
Mark9:48 where their worm dieth not, and the fire never goeth out." 
Mark9:49 Every man therefore shall be salted with fire: And every sacrifice(offering) shall be seasoned with salt. 
Mark9:50 Salt is good. But if the salt be unsavoury: what shall ye salt therewith? See that ye have salt in yourselves. And have peace among yourselves, one with another." 
Mark10:1 And he rose from thence, and went into the coasts of Jewry through the region that is beyond Jordan. And the people resorted unto him afresh: And as he was wont he taught them again." 
Mark10:2 And the pharisees came and asked him a question: whether it were lawful for a man to put away his wife: To prove him. 
Mark10:3 (And) He answered and said unto them: what did Moses bid you do? 
Mark10:4 And they said: Moses suffered to write a testimonial of her divorcement, and to put her away." 
Mark10:5 And Jesus answered, and said unto them: For because(the hardness) of your hard hearts he wrote this precept unto you." 
Mark10:6 But at the first creation, God made them man and woman, saying:" 
Mark10:7 (And) For this thing's sake shall man leave (his) father and mother, and bide by his wife," 
Mark10:8 and, two(they twain) shall be made one flesh. So then are they now not twain, but one flesh," 
Mark10:9 therefore that which(what) God hath coupled, let not man separate." 
Mark10:10 And in the house his disciples asked him again of that matter. 
Mark10:11 And he said unto them: Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, breaketh wedlock to her-ward." 
Mark10:12 And if a woman forsake her husband, and be married to another, she committeth advoutry." 
Mark10:13 And they brought children to him that he should(might) touch them. And his disciples chid(rebuked) those that brought them. 
Mark10:14 When Jesus saw that, he was displeased, and said to them: Suffer the children to come unto me and forbid them not. For unto(of) such belongeth(is) the kingdom of God." 
Mark10:15 Verily I say to you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a child, he shall not enter therein." 
Mark10:16 And he took them up in his arms, and put his hands upon them, and blessed them." 
Mark10:17 And when he was come out into the way, there came one running and kneeled to him, and asked him: Good Master, what shall I do, that I may inherit eternal(ever lasting) life?" 
Mark10:18 Jesus said to him: why callest thou me good? there is no man good but one, which is God." 
Mark10:19 Thou knowest the commandments: break not matrimony, kill not, steal not, bear no false witness, defraud no man, honour thy father and thy mother." 
Mark10:20 He answered and said to him: master, all these I have observed(kept) from my youth." 
Mark10:21 Jesus beheld him, and had a favour to him, and said unto him: One thing is lacking unto thee Go, and sell all that thou hast, and give it to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me, and take (up) thy cross on thee." 
Mark10:22 But he was discomforted with that saying, and went away mourning, for he had great possessions." 
Mark10:23 And Jesus looked round about, and said unto his disciples: with what difficulty shall they(what an hard thing is it for them) that have riches enter into the kingdom of God." 
Mark10:24 (And) His disciples were astonied at his words. (But) Jesus answered again, and said unto them: children, how hard is it for them, that trust in their riches, to enter into the kingdom of God?" 
Mark10:25 It is easier for a camel to go thorow the eye of an needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God." 
Mark10:26 And they were astonied out of measure, saying between themselves: who then can be saved?" 
Mark10:27 Jesus looked upon(beheld) them, and said: with men it is unpossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible." 
Mark10:28 And Peter began to say unto him: Lo, we have forsaken all, and have followed thee." 
Mark10:29 Jesus answered and said: Verily I say unto you, there is no man that hath forsaketh house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, other children, or lands, for my sake and the gospel's,(gospelles)" 
Mark10:30 which shall not receive an hundred fold now in this life, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers and children, and lands with persecutions, and in the world to come eternal(ever lasting) life." 
Mark10:31 Many that are first, shall be last. And the last first." 
Mark10:32 (And) They were in the way going up to Jerusalem. And Jesus went before them, and they were amazed, and as they followed, were afraid. And Jesus took the twelve again, and began to tell them what things should happen unto him." 
Mark10:33 Behold we go up to Jerusalem, and the son of man shall be delivered unto the high priests and unto the scribes: and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the gentiles," 
Mark10:34 and they shall mock him, and scourge him and spit upon him, and kill him, and the third day he shall rise again." 
Mark10:35 And (then) James and John the sons of Zebedee, came unto him, saying: Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we desire." 
Mark10:35 And (then) James and John the sons of Zebedee, came unto him, saying: Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we desire." 
Mark10:35 And (then) James and John the sons of Zebedee, came unto him, saying: Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we desire." 
Mark10:36 He said unto them: what would ye I should do unto you? 
Mark10:37 They said to him: grant unto us that we may sit one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory." 
Mark10:38 But Jesus said unto them: Ye wot not what ye ask. Can(May) ye drink of the cup, that I shall drink of? And be baptised in the baptism that I shall be baptised in?(withall)" 
Mark10:39 And they said unto him: that we can.(Yea that we may) Jesus said unto them: ye shall drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and be baptised with the baptism that I shall be baptised in:" 
Mark10:40 But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand, is not mine to give, but to them for whom it is prepared." 
Mark10:41 And when the ten heard that, they began to disdain at James and John." 
Mark10:41 And when the ten heard that, they began to disdain at James and John." 
Mark10:41 And when the ten heard that, they began to disdain at James and John." 
Mark10:42 But Jesus called them unto him, and said to them: Ye know well that they which seem to bear rule among the gentiles, reign as lords over them. And they that be great among them exercise authority over them." 
Mark10:43 So shall it not be among you but whosoever of you will be great among you shall be your minister. 
Mark10:44 And whosoever will be chief, shall be servant unto all." 
Mark10:45 For even the son of man came, not that other should minister unto him:(not to be ministered unto:) but to minister,(do service) and to give his life for the redemption of many." 
Mark10:46 And they came to Hiericho, and as he went out of Hiericho, with his disciples and a great number of people: Barthimeus the son of Thimeus which was blind, sat by the highways side begging." 
Mark10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry and to say: Jesus the son of David, have mercy on me." 
Mark10:48 And many rebuked him, because(that) he should hold his peace. But he cried the more a great deal, thou son of David have mercy on me." 
Mark10:49 And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called, and they called the blind, saying unto him: Be of good comfort, rise, he called thee." 
Mark10:50 (And) He threw away his cloak, and rose and came to Jesus:" 
Mark10:51 And Jesus answered, and said unto him: what wilt thou that I do unto thee? The blind said unto him: Master, that I might see." 
Mark10:52 Jesus said unto him: go thy way, thy faith hath saved(helped) thee: And by and by he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way." 
Mark11:1 And when they came nigh to Hierusalem, unto Bethphage, and Bethani, besides mount Olivete, he sent forth two of his disciples," 
Mark11:2 and said unto them: Go your ways into the town that is over against you. And as soon as ye enter(assone as ye be entered) into it ye shall find a colt bound, whereon never man sat: loose him and bring him hither." 
Mark11:3 And if any man say unto you: why do ye so? say that the Lord hath need of him: and straightway he will send him hither. 
Mark11:4 And they went their way, and found a colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met, and they loosed him." 
Mark11:5 And divers of them that stood there, said unto them: what do ye loosing the colt?" 
Mark11:6 And they said unto them even as Jesus had commanded them. And they let them go. 
Mark11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments on him, and he sat upon him." 
Mark11:8 And many spread their garments in the way. Other cut down branches of the trees, and strawed them in the way." 
Mark11:9 And they that went before and they that followed, cried, saying: Hosianna: blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord." 
Mark11:10 Blessed be the kingdom that cometh in the name of him that is Lord of our father David. Hosianna in the highest. 
Mark11:11 And the Lord entered into Hierusalem, and into the temple. And when he had looked round about upon all things, and now the eventide was come he went out unto Bethany with the twelve." 
Mark11:12 And on the morrow when they were come out from Bethany, he hungered," 
Mark11:13 and he spied a fig tree afar off, having leaves, and went to see whether he might find anything thereon: but when he came thereto, he found nothing but leaves. For the time of figs was not yet." 
Mark11:14 And Jesus answered and said to it: never man eat fruit of thee hereafter while the world standeth. And his disciples heard it. 
Mark11:15 And they came to Hierusalem, and Jesus went into the temple, and began to cast out them which sold and bought(the sellers and buyers) in the temple. And overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the stools of them that sold doves:" 
Mark11:16 and would not suffer that any man carried a vessel thorow the temple. 
Mark11:17 And he taught saying unto them, is it not written, how that mine(my) house shall be called the house of prayer unto all nations? But ye have made it a den of thieves." 
Mark11:18 And the scribes and high priests heard it and sought how to destroy him. For they feared him because all the people marveled at his doctrine. 
Mark11:19 And when even was come, he went out of the city." 
Mark11:20 And in the morning as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up by the roots.(rotes)(that it was withered unto the rote)" 
Mark11:21 And Peter remembered, and said unto him: master, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst, is withered away." 
Mark11:22 And Jesus answered, and said unto them: Have confidence(faith) in God." 
Mark11:23 Verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto this mountain: take away thyself, and cast thyself into the sea, and shall not waver(doubt) in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he sayeth shall come to pass, whatsoever he sayeth shall be done to him." 
Mark11:24 Therefore I say unto you, whatsoever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye shall have(receive) it and it shall be done unto you." 
Mark11:25 And when ye stand and pray, forgive if ye have anything against any man: that your father also which is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses." 
Mark11:26 But if you do not forgive: neither will your father, which is in heaven, forgive you your trespasses." 
Mark11:27 And they came again to Hierusalem, and as he walked in the temple, there came to him the high priests, and the scribes, and the seniors,(elders)" 
Mark11:28 and said unto him: by what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority, to do these things?" 
Mark11:29 Jesus answered, and said unto them: I will also ask of you a certain thing, and answer ye me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Mark11:30 Whether was the baptism of John(The baptism of John, was it) from heaven, or of men? Answer me." 
Mark11:30 Whether was the baptism of John(The baptism of John, was it) from heaven, or of men? Answer me." 
Mark11:31 And they thought in themselves, saying: if we shall say, from heaven, he will say: why then did ye not believe him?" 
Mark11:32 but if we shall say, of men, then fear we the people. For all men counted(held) John, that he was a very prophet." 
Mark11:32 but if we shall say, of men, then fear we the people. For all men counted(held) John, that he was a very prophet." 
Mark11:33 And they answered, and said unto Jesu: we cannot tell. And Jesus answered, and said unto them: neither will I tell you, by what authority I do these things." 
Mark12:1 And he began to speak unto them in similitudes. A certain man planted a vineyard, and compassed it with an hedge, and ordained a winepress, and built a tower in it, and let it out to hire unto husbandmen, and went into a strange country." 
Mark12:2 And when the time was come he sent to the tenants a servant that he might receive of the tenants of the fruit of the vineyard. 
Mark12:3 And they caught him and beat him and sent him again empty. 
Mark12:4 And moreover he sent unto them another servant, and at him they cast stones and brake his head, and sent him again all too reviled.(sent him away shamefully dealt withall)" 
Mark12:5 And again he sent another, and him they killed: and many other, beating some, and killing some." 
Mark12:6 Yet had he one son whom he loved tenderly, him also sent he at the last unto them, saying: they will fear my son.(stand in awe of my son)" 
Mark12:7 But the tenants said within(amongst) themselves: This is the heir, come let us kill him and the inheritance shall be ours." 
Mark12:8 And they took him and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard." 
Mark12:9 What shall then the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants, and let out the vineyard to other." 
Mark12:10 Have ye not read this scripture? the stone which the builders did refuse, is made the chief stone(headstone) in the corner:" 
Mark12:11 This was done of the Lord, and is marvelous in our eyes." 
Mark12:12 And they went about to take him, but they feared the people. For they perceived that he spake that similitude against them. And they left him and went their way." 
Mark12:13 And they sent unto him certain of the pharisees with Herod's servants, to take him in his words." 
Mark12:14 And as soon as they were come, they said unto him: master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: For thou considerest not the degree of men, but teachest the way of God truly: Is it lawful to pay tribute to Cesar, or not?" 
Mark12:15 ought we to give, or ought we not to give? He knew(understood) their dissimulation,(perceived their hypocracy) and said unto them: Why tempt ye me? Bring me a penny, that I may see it." 
Mark12:16 And they brought him one. And he said unto them: Whose is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Cesar's." 
Mark12:17 And Jesus answered, and said unto them: Then give to Cesar that which belongeth to Cesar: and give(to) God that which pertaineth to God. And they marveled at him." 
Mark12:18 And(Then came) the sadducees came unto him, which say, there is no resurrection. And they asked him saying:" 
Mark12:19 Master, Moses wrote unto us, if any man's brother die, and leave his wife, behind him, and leave no children: that then his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother." 
Mark12:20 There were seven brethren and the first took a wife, and when he died left no seed behind him." 
Mark12:21 And the second took her, and died: neither left he any seed, and the third likewise." 
Mark12:22 And seven had her, and left no seed behind them. Last of all the wife died also." 
Mark12:23 In the resurrection then, when they shall rise again: whose wife shall she be of them? For seven had her to wife." 
Mark12:24 Jesus answered, and said unto them: Are ye not therefore deceived(Do not ye err?) because ye know not(deceived and understand not) the scriptures? Neither the power of God?" 
Mark12:25 For when they shall rise again from death, they neither marry, nor are married: but are as the angels which are in heaven." 
Mark12:26 As touching the dead, that they shall rise again: have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him saying: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?" 
Mark12:27 He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living, ye are therefore greatly deceived." 
Mark12:28 And there came one of the scribes, and when he(that) had heard them disputing together, and perceived that he had answered them well, he(and) asked him: Which is the first of all the commandments?" 
Mark12:29 Jesus answered him: the first of all the commandments is. Hear Israel, our(The) Lord God, is one Lord." 
Mark12:30 And thou shalt love thy Lord God(the LORD thy God) with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment." 
Mark12:31 And the second is like unto this. Thou shalt love thy neighbor, as thy self. There is none other commandment greater than these." 
Mark12:32 And the scribe said unto him: well master, thou hast said the truth,(said right) that there is one God, and that there is none but he." 
Mark12:33 And to love him with all the heart, and with all the mind, and with all the soul, and with all the strength. And to love a man's neighbor as himself, is a greater thing than all holocausts(burnt offerings) and sacrifices." 
Mark12:34 And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him: Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any question." 
Mark12:35 And Jesus answered, and said teaching in the temple: how say the scribes, that Christ is the son of David?" 
Mark12:36 for David himself inspired with the holy ghost said: The Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy foot stool." 
Mark12:37 Then David himself calleth him Lord, and by what means is he then his son? And much people heard him gladly." 
Mark12:38 And he said unto(taught) them in his doctrine: beware of the scribes which love to go in long, clothing: and love salutations in the market places," 
Mark12:39 and the chief seats in the synagogues, and to sit in the uppermost rooms at feasts," 
Mark12:40 and devour widows' houses, and (that) under a colour pray long prayers.(of long praying.) These shall have(receive) greater damnation." 
Mark12:41 And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the people put money into the treasury. And many that were rich, cast in much." 
Mark12:42 And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing." 
Mark12:43 And he called unto him his disciples, and said unto them: Verily I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury." 
Mark12:44 For they all put(did cast) in of their superfluity: But she of her poverty, (did) cast in all that she had, even all her living." 
Mark13:1 And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples said unto him: Master, see what stones, and what buildings are here.(what a building is this?)" 
Mark13:2 And Jesus answered, and said unto him: Seest thou these great buildings?(this great building) There shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown(broken) down." 
Mark13:3 And as he sat on mount Olivet over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him secretly,(privately)" 
Mark13:3 And as he sat on mount Olivet over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him secretly,(privately)" 
Mark13:3 And as he sat on mount Olivet over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him secretly,(privately)" 
Mark13:4 tell us when these things shall be?(when shall these things be?) And what is the sign, when all these things shall be fulfilled?" 
Mark13:5 And Jesus answered them, and began to say: take heed lest any man deceive you." 
Mark13:6 For many shall come in my name saying: I am Christ, and shall deceive many." 
Mark13:7 When ye shall hear of war, and tidings of war, be ye not troubled.(the noise of wars, be not ye afraid) For such things must needs be. But the end is not yet." 
Mark13:8 For there shall nation arise against nation,(people shall rise against another) and realm against realm.(kingdom against kingdom.) And there shall be earthquakes, in all quarters, and famishment,(dearth) and troubles. These are the beginning of sorrows." 
Mark13:9 But take ye heed to yourselves. For they shall bring you up to the councils and into the synagogues, and ye shall be beaten, and ye shall be brought before rulers and kings, for my sake, for a testimonial(witness) unto them." 
Mark13:10 And the gospel(gospell) must first be published among all nations.(preached among all people) 
Mark13:11 But when they lead you and present you take no thought, aforehand what ye shall say, neither imagine: but whatsoever is given you at the same time, that speak. For it shall not be ye that shall speak, but the holy ghost." 
Mark13:12 Yea and the brother shall deliver the brother to death. And the father the son, and the children shall rise against their fathers and mothers, and shall put them to death." 
Mark13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. But whosoever shall endure unto the end (,the same) shall be safe." 
Mark13:14 Moreover when ye see the abominable(abomination that betokeneth) desolation, whereof is spoken by Daniel the prophet, stand where it ought not, let him that readeth understand it.(mark it well) Then let them that be in Jewry,(Iurie) flee to the mountains." 
Mark13:15 And let him that is on the housetop, not descend down into the house, neither enter therein, to fetch anything out of his house." 
Mark13:16 And let him that is in the field, not turn back again unto those things which he left behind him, for to take his clothes with him." 
Mark13:17 But woe is then to them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days." 
Mark13:18 But pray, that your flight be not in the winter." 
Mark13:19 For there shall be in those days such tribulation, as was not from the beginning of creatures, which God created, unto this time, neither shall be." 
Mark13:20 And except that the Lord had shortened(should shorten) those days, no man should be saved. But for the elects' sake, which he hath chosen, he hath shortened those days." 
Mark13:21 And then, if any man say to you: lo, here is Christ, lo, he is there, believe not." 
Mark13:22 For false christs shall arise, and false prophets; And shall shew miracles(which shall do tokens) and wonders, to deceive if it were possible, even the elect.(even the very chosen)" 
Mark13:23 But take ye heed, behold I have shewed you all things before." 
Mark13:24 Moreover in those days after that tribulation,(this trouble) the sun shall wax dark, and the moon shall not give her light," 
Mark13:25 and the stars of heaven shall fall; And the powers which are in heaven, shall move." 
Mark13:26 And then shall they see the son of man coming in the clouds, with great power and glory." 
Mark13:27 And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his elect(chosen) from the four winds, and from the one end of the world(earth) to the other." 
Mark13:28 Learn a similitude of the fig tree. When his branches are yet tender, and hath brought forth leaves, ye know, that summer is near." 
Mark13:29 So in like manner(likewise) when ye see these things come to pass, understand,(be ye sure) that it is nigh even at the doors." 
Mark13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass till all these things be done.(fullfilled)" 
Mark13:31 Heaven and earth shall pass, but my words shall not pass." 
Mark13:32 But of the day and the hour, knoweth no man: no not the angels which are in heaven: neither the son himself, save the father only." 
Mark13:33 Take heed, watch, and pray, for ye know not when the time is." 
Mark13:34 As a man which is gone into a strange country and hath left his house, and given authority to his servants, and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch." 
Mark13:35 Watch therefore, for ye know not when the master of the house will come, whether at even, or at midnight, whether at the cock crowing, or in the dawning:" 
Mark13:36 lest if he come suddenly, he should find you sleeping." 
Mark13:37 And that I say unto you, I say unto all men, watch." 
Mark14:1 After two days followed ester, and the days of sweet bread. And the high priests and the scribes sought means, how they might take him by craft(disceate) and put him to death." 
Mark14:2 But they said: not on(in) the feast day, least any business arise among(lest there be an uprour in) the people." 
Mark14:3 When he was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper, even as he sat at meat,(the table) there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment, called nard, that was pure and costly, and she brake the box and poured it on his head." 
Mark14:4 And there were some that disdained(were not content) in themselves, and said: what needed this waste of ointment?" 
Mark14:5 For it might have been sold for more than two(three) hundred pence, and been given unto the poor. And they grudged against her." 
Mark14:6 And Jesus said: let her be in rest, why grieve(trouble) ye her? She hath done a good work on me." 
Mark14:7 Yea, and(For) ye shall have poor with you always: and whensoever ye will ye may do them good: but me ye shall not have always." 
Mark14:8 She hath done that she could: she came aforehand to anoint my body to his buryingward. 
Mark14:9 Verily I say unto you: wheresoever this gospel(gospell) shall be preached thorowout the whole world: this also that she hath done, shall be rehearsed in remembrance of her." 
Mark14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went away unto the high priests, to betray him unto them." 
Mark14:11 When they heard that, they were glad, and promised that they would give him money. And he sought, how he might conveniently betray him." 
Mark14:12 And the first day of sweet bread, when men offer the paschal lamb, his disciples said unto him: where wilt thou that we go and prepare that thou mayest eat the ester lamb?" 
Mark14:13 And he sent forth two of his disciples, and said unto them: Go ye into the city, and there shall a man meet you bearing a pitcher of water, follow him." 
Mark14:14 And whithersoever he goeth in, say ye to the good man of the house: the master asketh(sendeth the word) where is the guest chamber, where I shall eat the ester lamb with my disciples?" 
Mark14:15 And he will shew you a great parlour, paved, and prepared: there make ready for us." 
Mark14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came in to the city, and found as he had said unto them, and made ready(prepared) the ester lamb." 
Mark14:17 And at even, he came with the twelve." 
Mark14:18 And as they sat at board and ate, Jesus said: Verily I say unto you: that one of you shall betray me, which eateth with me." 
Mark14:19 And they began to mourn, and to say to him one by one: is it I? And another said: Is it I?" 
Mark14:20 he answered, and said unto them: It is one of the twelve and the same dippeth with me in the platter." 
Mark14:21 The son of man goeth, as it is written of him: but woe be to that man, by whom the son of man is betrayed. Good were it for him, if that man had never been born." 
Mark14:22 And as they ate, Jesus took bread, gave thanks,(blessed and) brake it and gave it to them and said: Take, eat; This is my body." 
Mark14:23 And he took the cup, gave thanks, and gave it to them, and they drank all of it." 
Mark14:24 And he said unto them: This is my blood of the new Testament, which shall be(is) shed for many." 
Mark14:25 Verily I say unto you: I will drink no more of this fruit of the vine, until that day, that I shall drink it new in the kingdom of God." 
Mark14:26 And when they had said grace, they went out into the mount olivet." 
Mark14:27 And Jesus said unto them: All ye shall hurt(be offended) thorow me this night. For it is written: I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.(scatred abrode)" 
Mark14:28 But after that I am risen again I will go into Galilee before you. 
Mark14:29 Peter said unto him: And though all men should be hurt,(offended) yet would not I." 
Mark14:30 And Jesus said unto him: Verily I say unto thee this day even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice." 
Mark14:31 And he spake bolder: no, if I should die with thee, I will not deny thee. Likewise also said they all." 
Mark14:32 And they came into a place named Gethsemani. And he said to his disciples: Sit ye here while I go apart and pray. 
Mark14:33 And he took with him Peter, James, and John, and he began to wax abashed and to be in an agony." 
Mark14:33 And he took with him Peter, James, and John, and he began to wax abashed and to be in an agony." 
Mark14:33 And he took with him Peter, James, and John, and he began to wax abashed and to be in an agony." 
Mark14:34 And said unto them: My soul is very heavy even unto the death, tarry here and watch." 
Mark14:35 And he went forth a little and fell down on the ground and prayed: That if it were possible, the hour might pass from him." 
Mark14:36 And he said: Abba father, all things are possible unto thee, take away this cup from me. Nevertheless not that I will, but that thou wilt be done." 
Mark14:37 And he came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter: Simon sleepest thou? Couldest not thou watch with me one hour?" 
Mark14:38 watch ye, and pray, least ye enter into temptation, the spirit is ready,(willing) but the flesh is weak." 
Mark14:39 And again he went away and prayed, and spake the same words." 
Mark14:40 And he returned and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy: neither could they tell(wist) what they might answer to him." 
Mark14:41 And he came the third time, and said unto them: sleep hence forth(Sleep on now) and take your ease.(rest) It is enough. The hour is come; Behold the son of man shall be delivered into the hands of sinners." 
Mark14:42 Rise up, let us go. Lo he that betrayeth me, is come nigh.(at hand.)" 
Mark14:43 And immediately while he yet spake came Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great number of people with swords and staves from the high priests and scribes and seniors.(elders.)" 
Mark14:44 (And) He that betrayed him, gave(had given) them a general token, saying: whosoever I do kiss, he it is, take him, and lead him away warily." 
Mark14:45 And as soon as he was come, he went straightway to him, and said unto him: master, master, and kissed him." 
Mark14:46 And they laid their hands on him, and took him." 
Mark14:47 And one of them that stood by drew out a sword, and smote a servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear." 
Mark14:48 And Jesus answered and said unto them: ye came(be come) out as unto a thief with swords and with staves for to take me; 
Mark14:49 I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not, but that the scriptures should be fulfilled:" 
Mark14:50 And they all forsook him and ran away. 
Mark14:51 And there was a certain young man that followed him clothed in linen upon the bare, and the young men caught him," 
Mark14:52 and he left his linen and fled from them naked. 
Mark14:53 And they led Jesus away to the highest priest of all, and to him came all the high priests and the seniors,(elders) and the scribes." 
Mark14:54 And Peter followed him a great way off even into the palace of the high priest, and he was there and sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire." 
Mark14:55 And the high priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesu, to put him to death; And they found none." 
Mark14:56 Yet many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together." 
Mark14:57 And there arose certain and brought false witness against him, saying:" 
Mark14:58 We heard him say: I will destroy(break down) this temple made with hands, and within three days I will build another, made without hands." 
Mark14:59 And(But) their witness agreed not together. 
Mark14:60 And the highest priest stood up amongst them all, and asked Jesus saying: answerest thou nothing? How is it that these bear witness against thee?" 
Mark14:61 And he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the highest priest asked him, and said unto him: Art thou the Christ the son of the blessed?" 
Mark14:62 And Jesus said: I am. And ye shall see the son of man sit on the right hand of power, and come in the clouds of heaven." 
Mark14:63 Then the highest priest rent his clothes and said: what need we any further (of) witness? 
Mark14:64 ye have heard the blasphemy, what think ye? And they all gave sentence that he was worthy of death." 
Mark14:65 And some began to spit at him, and to cover his face, and to beat him with their fists, and to say unto him, aread(prophecie) unto us. And the servants buffeted him on the face." 
Mark14:66 And Peter was beneath in the palace, and there came one of the wenches of the highest priest;" 
Mark14:67 And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked on him, and said: was not thou also with Jesus of Nazareth?" 
Mark14:68 And he denied it saying: I know him not, neither wot I what thou sayest: And he went out into the porch, and the cock crew." 
Mark14:69 And a damsel saw him, and again began to say to them that stood by, this is one of them." 
Mark14:70 And he denied it again. And anon after,(And after a litle while) again they that stood by, said (again) to Peter: surely thou art one of them, for thou art of Galilee, and thy speech agreeth thereto." 
Mark14:71 And he began to curse and to swear, saying: I know not this man of whom ye speak." 
Mark14:72 And again the cock crew. And Peter remembered the word that Jesus said unto him: before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice, and began to weep." 
Mark15:1 And anon in the dawning held the high priests a council with the seniors(elders) and the scribes; And also the whole congregation,(councell) and bound Jesus and led him away, and delivered him to Pilate." 
Mark15:2 And Pilate asked him: art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered, and said unto him: thou sayest it." 
Mark15:3 And the high priests accused him of many things. 
Mark15:4 (Wherefore) Pilate asked him again, saying: Answerest thou nothing? Behold how many things they lay unto thy charge." 
Mark15:5 Jesus yet answered never a word, so that Pilate marveled." 
Mark15:6 At the(that) feast Pilate was wont to deliver at their pleasure a prisoner: whomsoever they would desire. 
Mark15:7 And there was one named Barabas, which lay bound with them,(the seditious) that caused(made) insurrection, and in the insurrection(uproar) committed murder." 
Mark15:8 And the people called unto him, and began to desire of him, according as he had ever done unto them." 
Mark15:9 Pilate answered them, and said: Will ye that I loose unto you the King of the Jews?" 
Mark15:10 For he knew that the high priests had delivered him of envy. 
Mark15:11 But the high priests had moved the people that he should rather deliver Barabas unto them. 
Mark15:12 (And) Pilate answered again, and said unto them: What will ye then that I do with him, whom ye call the(ye accuse to be) King of the Jews?" 
Mark15:13 And they cried again: crucify him. 
Mark15:14 Pilate said unto them: What evil hath he done? And they cried the more fervently: Crucify him. 
Mark15:15 (And so) Pilate willing to content the people, loosed(lowsed) them Barabas; And delivered Jesus (when he had) scourged (him) for to be crucified." 
Mark15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the common hall, and called together the whole multitude," 
Mark15:17 and they clothed him with purple, and they plaited a crown of thorns and crowned him withal;" 
Mark15:18 And began to salute him: Hail King of the Jews. 
Mark15:19 And they smote him on the head with a reed, and spat upon him, and kneeled down and worshipped him." 
Mark15:20 And when they had mocked him, they took the purple off him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him out, to crucify him." 
Mark15:21 And they compelled one that passed by, called Simon of Cyrene (which came out of the field, and was father of Alexander and Rufus) to bear his cross." 
Mark15:22 And they brought him to a place named Golgotha (which is by interpretation, the place of dead men's skulls)" 
Mark15:23 and they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh, but he received it not." 
Mark15:24 And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots for them, what every man should have." 
Mark15:25 And it was about the third hour, and they crucified him." 
Mark15:26 And the title of the(his) cause of his death was written:(title of his cause was written over above him (namely:)) The King of the Jews. 
Mark15:27 And they crucified with him two thieves:(murtherers) the one on his(the) right hand, and the other on his left hand." 
Mark15:28 And the scripture was fulfilled, which sayeth: and he was counted among the wicked.(evil doers)" 
Mark15:29 And they that went by, railed on him: wagging their heads, and saying: A wretch, that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days." 
Mark15:30 Save thyself, and come down from the cross." 
Mark15:31 Likewise also mocked him the high priests among themselves with the scribes, and said: He saved other men, himself he cannot save." 
Mark15:32 Let Christ the King of Israel now descend from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him, checked him also." 
Mark15:33 And when the sixth hour was come, darkness arose over all the earth, until the ninth hour." 
Mark15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying: Eloi, Eloi, lama sabaththani,(lamaasbathani)(asabthani) which is if it be interpreted: my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" 
Mark15:35 And some of them that stood by when they heard that said: behold he calleth for Helias. 
Mark15:36 And one ran, and filled a sponge full of vinegar, and put(stick) it on a reed, and gave it him to drink, saying: let him alone, let us see whether Helias will come and take him down." 
Mark15:37 But Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost." 
Mark15:38 And the veil of the temple did rent in two parts,(pieces) from the top to the bottom." 
Mark15:39 And when the undercaptain(centurion) which stood before him saw that he so cried and gave up the ghost, and he said: truly this man was the son of God." 
Mark15:40 There were also women a good way off beholding him: among whom was Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother of James the little and of Joses, and Mary Salome:" 
Mark15:40 There were also women a good way off beholding him: among whom was Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother of James the little and of Joses, and Mary Salome:" 
Mark15:41 which also when he was in Galilee, followed him and ministered unto him, and many other women which came up with him to Hierusalem." 
Mark15:42 And now when night was come (because it was the even(day of preparing) that goeth before the Sabbath) 
Mark15:43 Joseph of Arimathia a noble senator(councillor) (which also looked for the kingdom of God) came; And went in boldly unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesu." 
Mark15:44 (And) Pilate marveled that he was already dead, and called unto him the under captain,(centurion) and asked of him, whether he had been any while dead." 
Mark15:45 And when he knew the truth(gotten knowledge) of the under captain, he gave the body to Joseph." 
Mark15:46 And he bought a linen cloth, and took him down and wrapped him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb, that was hewn out of the rock. And rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulcre." 
Mark15:47 And Mary Magdalene and Mary Jose beheld where he was laid. 
Mark16:1 And when the Sabbath day was past, Mary Magdalen,(Sabbath was past) and Mary Jacobi, and Salome, bought ointments,(odors,)(spices) that they might come and anoint him." 
Mark16:2 And early in the morning the next day after the Sabbath day,(upon a day [or first] of the Sabbaths) they came unto the sepulchre, when the sun was risen." 
Mark16:3 And they said one to another: who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 
Mark16:4 And when they beheld it,(looked) they saw how the stone was rolled away. For it was a very great one," 
Mark16:5 and they went into the sepulchre, and saw a young man, sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment, and they were abashed." 
Mark16:6 (And) He said unto them, be not afraid, ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified. He is risen, he is not here. Behold the place, where they put him." 
Mark16:7 But go your way, and tell his disciples, and namely Peter, that he is gone(he will go) before you into Galilee, there shall ye see him, as he said unto you." 
Mark16:8 And they went out quickly and fled from the sepulchre. For they trembled and were amazed. Neither said they anything to any man, for they were afraid." 
Mark16:9 When Jesus was risen the morrow after the Sabbath day,(risen up early upon the first day of the Sabbaths) he appeared first to Mary Magdalen, out of whom he cast seven devils." 
Mark16:10 And she went, and told them that were with him, as they mourned and wept." 
Mark16:11 And when(though) they heard, that he was alive, and (he) had appeared to her: they believed it not." 
Mark16:12 After that, he appeared unto two of them in a strange figure, as he(they) walked, and went into the country." 
Mark16:13 And they went, and told it to the remnant. And they believed them neither." 
Mark16:14 After that he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat: and cast in their teeth their unbelief, and hardness of heart: because they believed not them which had seen him after his resurrection." 
Mark16:15 And he said unto them: Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel(glad tidings) to all creatures:" 
Mark16:16 Whosoever(He that) believeth, and is baptised, shall be safe:(saved.) And whosoever(But he) that believeth not, shall be damned." 
Mark16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe: In my name they shall cast out devils, and shall speak with new tongues," 
Mark16:18 and shall kill serpents. And if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them. They shall lay their hands on the sick, and they shall recover." 
Mark16:19 So then when the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received into heaven, and sat (him down) on the right hand of God." 
Mark16:20 And they went forth, and preached everywhere. And the Lord wrought with them; And confirmed their preaching (the word) with miracles that followed. [The end of the Gospell off S. Mark.]" 
Luke1:1 Forasmuch(For as much) as many have taken in hand to compile a treatise of those things, which are surely known among us," 
Luke1:2 even as they declared them unto us, which from the beginning saw them with their eyes,(saw their selves) and were ministers at the doing:" 
Luke1:3 I determined also, as soon as I had searched out diligently all things from the beggining, that then I would write(write the same orderly) unto thee, good Theophilus," 
Luke1:4 that thou mightest know the certainty of those things, whereof thou art informed." 
Luke1:5 In the time of Herod (the) king of Jewry, there was a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abie. And his wife was of the daughters of Aaron: And her name was Elizabeth." 
Luke1:6 Both were perfect(righteous) before God, and walked in all the laws and ordinances(commandments and statutes) of the Lord that no man could find fault with them.(unreproveably)" 
Luke1:7 And they had no child, because that Elizabeth was barren; And both were well stricken in age." 
Luke1:8 (And) It came to pass, as he executed the priest's office, before God as his course came" 
Luke1:9 (according to the custom of the priest's office) his lot was to burn odoures.(incense.) And (he) went into the temple of the Lord," 
Luke1:10 and all the(whole) multitude of (the) people were without in their prayers while the odoures were(the incense was) a burning. 
Luke1:11 (And) There appeared unto him the Lord's angel,(an angel of the lorde) standing on the right side of the altar of odoures.(incense.)" 
Luke1:12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was abashed, and fear came on him." 
Luke1:13 (And) The angel said unto him: fear not Zacary, for thy prayer is heard: And thy wife Helizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John:" 
Luke1:13 (And) The angel said unto him: fear not Zacary, for thy prayer is heard: And thy wife Helizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John:" 
Luke1:14 And thou shalt have joy and gladness: And many shall rejoice at his birth. 
Luke1:15 For he shall be great in the sight of God,(the Lord) and shall neither drink wine nor(ner) strong drink. And he shall be filled with the holy ghost, even in his mother's womb:" 
Luke1:16 and many of the children of Israel shall he turn to their Lord God.(the LORDE their God) 
Luke1:17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Helias to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the unbelievers(unfaithful) to the wisdom of the just men:(righteous) to make the people ready for the Lord." 
Luke1:18 And Zacary said unto the angel: Whereby shall I know this? seeing that I am old, and my wife well stricken in years.(age)" 
Luke1:19 And the angel answered, and said unto him: I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God,(stand before God) and am sent to speak unto thee: and to shew thee this(these) glad tidings." 
Luke1:20 And take heed(behold) thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak until the time that these things be performed, because thou believedst not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season." 
Luke1:21 And the people waited for Zacharias and marveled that he tarried in the temple. 
Luke1:22 (And) When he came out, he could not speak unto them. And(Whereby) they perceived, that he had seen some vision in the temple. And he beckoned unto them, and remained speechless." 
Luke1:23 And it fortuned, as soon as the time of his office was out, he departed home into his own house. And after those days," 
Luke1:24 his wife Elizabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying:" 
Luke1:25 This wise hath God dealt with me in the days when he looked on me, to take from me the rebuke that I suffered among men." 
Luke1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth," 
Luke1:27 to a virgin spoused to a man, whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary." 
Luke1:28 And the angel went in unto her, and said: Hail full of grace, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women." 
Luke1:29 When she saw him, she was abashed at his saying: and cast in her mind(thought) what manner of salutation that should be." 
Luke1:30 And the angel said unto her: fear not Mary,(for) thou hast found grace with God." 
Luke1:31 Lo: thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and shalt bear a child,(son) and shalt call his name Jesus." 
Luke1:32 He shall be great, and shall be called the son of the highest.(Hyest) And the Lord God shall give unto him the seat of his father David:" 
Luke1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever, and of his kingdom shall be none end." 
Luke1:34 Then said Mary unto the angel: How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?" 
Luke1:35 And the angel answered, and said unto her: The holy ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest(Hyest) shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born, shall be called the son of God." 
Luke1:36 And mark,(behold) thy cousin Elizabeth, (she) hath also conceived a son in her old age. And this is the(her) sixth month to her, which was(though she be) called barren,(which is reported to be barren)" 
Luke1:37 for with God shall(can) nothing be unpossible. 
Luke1:38 (And) Mary said: behold the handmaiden of the Lord, be it unto me even as thou hast said. And the angel departed from her." 
Luke1:39 (And) Mary arose in those days, and went into the mountains with haste into a city of Jewry,(Iurie)" 
Luke1:40 and entered into the house of Zachary, and saluted Elizabeth:" 
Luke1:41 And it fortuned, as Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe sprang in her belly.(womb) And Elizabeth was filled with the holy ghost," 
Luke1:42 and cried with a loud voice, and said: Blessed art thou among the women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb." 
Luke1:43 And whence happeneth this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" 
Luke1:44 (For) Lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe sprang in my belly for joy." 
Luke1:45 And blessed art thou that believedst: For those things shall be performed which were told thee from the Lord. 
Luke1:46 And Mary said: My soul magnifieth the Lord. 
Luke1:47 And my spirit rejoiceth in God my saviour: 
Luke1:48 For he hath looked on the poor degree of his handmaiden. Behold now from hence forth shall all generations call me blessed. 
Luke1:49 For he that is mighty hath done to me great things, and blessed(holy) is his name." 
Luke1:50 And his mercy is always(endureth) on them that fear him thorowout all generations. 
Luke1:51 He hath shewed(sheweth) strength with his arm, he hath scattered(scattereth) them that are proud in the imagination of their hearts." 
Luke1:52 He hath put(putteth) Down the mighty from their seats, and hath exalted them of low degree." 
Luke1:53 He hath filled the hungry with good things: And hath sent(sendeth) away the rich empty. 
Luke1:54 He hath remembered(remembereth) mercy: and hath holpen(helpeth) his servant Israel. 
Luke1:55 Even as he promised to our fathers, Abraham and to his seed for ever." 
Luke1:56 And Mary abode with her about a three months; And returned home again.(to her own house.) 
Luke1:57 Elizabeth's time was come that she should be delivered; And she brought forth a son. 
Luke1:58 And her neighbours and her cousins(kinsfolks) heard tell how, the Lord had magnified his(shewed great) mercy upon her, and they rejoiced with her." 
Luke1:59 And it fortuned the eighth day: they came to circumcise the child: and called his name Zacari after the name of his father," 
Luke1:60 and(Howbeit) his mother answered, and said: not so, but he shall be called John." 
Luke1:60 and(Howbeit) his mother answered, and said: not so, but he shall be called John." 
Luke1:61 And they said unto her: There is none of thy kin, that is named with this name." 
Luke1:62 And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called." 
Luke1:63 And he asked for writing tables and wrote saying: his name is John. And they marveled all. 
Luke1:63 And he asked for writing tables and wrote saying: his name is John. And they marveled all. 
Luke1:64 And his mouth(mought) was opened immediately, and his tongue, (also) and he spake lauding God." 
Luke1:65 And fear came on all them that dwelt nigh: (unto them.) And all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Jewry:(Iurie) 
Luke1:66 and all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying: What manner child shall this be? And the hand of God(the Lorde) was with him." 
Luke1:67 And his father Zacharias was filled with the holy ghost, and prophesied saying:" 
Luke1:68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people." 
Luke1:69 And hath raised up an horn of salvation unto us, in the house of his servant David." 
Luke1:70 Even as he promised by the mouth of his holy prophets which were since the world began. 
Luke1:71 That we should be saved from our enemies: And from the hands of all that hate us: 
Luke1:72 To shew mercy towards(To fulfil the mercy promised to) our fathers; And to remember his holy promise.(covenant.) 
Luke1:73 That is to say(And to perform) the oath, which he sware to our father Abraham, for to give us." 
Luke1:74 That we delivered out of the hands of our enemies, might serve him without fear:" 
Luke1:75 all the days of our life, in such holiness and righteousness that are accept before him." 
Luke1:76 And thou child, shalt be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord, to prepare his ways:" 
Luke1:77 And to give knowledge of health(salvation) unto his people, for the remission of sins:" 
Luke1:78 Through the tender mercy of our Lord,(God, whereby) wherewith hath visited us the day spring from on high:" 
Luke1:79 To give light to them that sat in darkness, and in shadow of death, and to guide our feet into the way of peace." 
Luke1:80 And the child increased(grew) and waxed strong in spirit, and was in wilderness, till the day came, when he should shew himself unto the Israhelites." 
Luke2:1 It followed(And it chanced) in those days: that there went out a commandment from August the Emperor, that all the world should be valued.(taxed.)" 
Luke2:2 (And) This taxing was (the) first executed (and) when Syrenus was leftenant in Syria. 
Luke2:3 And every man went into(unto) his own shire town,(city) there to be taxed." 
Luke2:4 And Joseph also ascended from Galilee, out of a city called Nazareth, into Jewry:(Iurie:) into(unto) the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David" 
Luke2:5 to be taxed with Mary his wedded(spoused) wife, which was with child." 
Luke2:6 And it fortuned while they were there, her time was come that she should be delivered." 
Luke2:7 And she brought forth her first begotten son. And wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them within, in the hostry.(inn.)" 
Luke2:8 And there were in the same region shepherds abiding in the field, and watching their flock by night." 
Luke2:9 And lo: the angel of the Lord stood hard by them, and the brightness of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid." 
Luke2:10 And (But) the angel said unto them: Be not afraid: (For) Behold I bring you tidings of great joy, that shall come to all the people:" 
Luke2:11 for unto you is born this day in the city of David a saviour, which is Christ the Lord." 
Luke2:12 And take this for a sign: ye shall find the child(babe) swaddled, and laid in a manger." 
Luke2:13 And straight way there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly soldiers,(hosts) lauding(which praised) God, and saying:" 
Luke2:14 Glory to God on high,(an hye) and peace on the earth: and unto men rejoicing.(a good will)" 
Luke2:15 And it fortuned, as soon as the angels were gone away (from them) into heaven, the shepherds said one to another: let us go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing that is happened, which the Lord hath shewed unto us." 
Luke2:16 And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe laid in a manger." 
Luke2:17 And when they had seen it, they published abroad the saying, which was told them of that child." 
Luke2:18 And all that heard it wondered, at those things(words) which were told them of the shepherds." 
Luke2:19 But Mary kept all those sayings, and pondered them in her heart." 
Luke2:20 And the shepherds returned, praising and lauding God for all that they had heard and seen, even as it was told unto them." 
Luke2:21 And when the eighth day was come that the child should be circumcised, his name was called Jesus, which was named of the angel before he was conceived in the mother's womb." 
Luke2:22 And when the time of their purification (after the law of Moses) was come they brought him to Hierusalem, to present him to the Lord" 
Luke2:23 (As it is written in the law of the Lord: every man child that first openeth the matrix, shall be called holy to the Lord)" 
Luke2:24 and to offer (as it is said in the law of the Lord) a pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons." 
Luke2:25 And behold there was a man in Hierusalem, whose name was Simeon. And the same man was just and feared God, and longed for the consolation of Israel, and the holy ghost was in him." 
Luke2:26 And an answer was given him of the holy ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's Christ." 
Luke2:27 And he came by inspiration into the temple. And as(when) the father and mother(elders) brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law." 
Luke2:28 Then took he him up in his arms (and praised God) and said: 
Luke2:29 Lord Now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy promise. 
Luke2:30 For mine eyes have seen the saviour sent from thee: 
Luke2:31 Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. 
Luke2:32 A light to lighten the gentiles, and the glory(and for the praise) of thy people Israel." 
Luke2:33 And his father and mother marveled at those things, which were spoken of him:" 
Luke2:34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother: behold, this child shall be the fall, and resurrection(and to an uprising again) of many in Israel: And a sign(and for a token) which shall be spoken against." 
Luke2:35 And moreover the sword shall pierce the very heart of thee,(thy soul) that the thoughts of many hearts may be opened." 
Luke2:36 And there was (one) Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel of (the) tribe of Aser. And she(which) was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven year from her virginity." 
Luke2:37 And this(she had been a) widow about four score and four year of age, which went never out of the temple, but served (God) there with fasting and prayer night and day." 
Luke2:38 And she(the same) came forth that same hour, and praised God,(the Lord) and spake of him to all that looked for redemption in Hierusalem." 
Luke2:39 And as soon as they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee into(to) their own city Nazareth." 
Luke2:40 And the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, and was full of(filled with) wisdom, and the favour(grace) of God was with him." 
Luke2:41 And his father and mother went to Hierusalem every year at the feast of ester. 
Luke2:42 And when he was twelve year old, they went up to Hierusalem after the custom of the feast." 
Luke2:43 And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned home, the child Jesus bode still in Hierusalem, unknowing to his father and mother." 
Luke2:44 For they supposed(thought) he had been in the company. They(and therefore) came a day's journey, and sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance," 
Luke2:45 and(when they) found him not They went back again to Hierusalem, and sought him." 
Luke2:46 And it fortuned after three days, (that) they found him in the temple sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and posing(opposing) them." 
Luke2:47 And all that heard him marveled at his wit(understanding) and answers. 
Luke2:48 And when they saw him, they were astonied. And his mother said unto him: son why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold thy father and I have sorowed and sought thee.(sorrowing)" 
Luke2:49 And he said unto them: how is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must go about my father's business? 
Luke2:50 And they understood not the saying that he spake to them. 
Luke2:51 And he went with them, and came to Nazareth, and was obedient to them. (But) His mother kept all these things in her heart." 
Luke2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and age, and in favour with God and man." 
Luke3:1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius the Emperor, Pontius Pilate being leftenant of Jewry,(Iurie) and Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip Tetrarch in Iturea, and in the region of Traconitis, and Lysanias the Tetrarch of Abyline:" 
Luke3:2 When Anna and Cayphas were the high priests: The commandment(word) of God was published(came) unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness. 
Luke3:2 When Anna and Cayphas were the high priests: The commandment(word) of God was published(came) unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness. 
Luke3:3 And he came into all the coasts about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins," 
Luke3:4 as it is written in the book of the sayings of Esayas the prophet, which sayeth: The voice of a crier in wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight." 
Luke3:5 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low: And crooked things shall be made straight: and the rough ways shall be made smooth." 
Luke3:6 And all flesh shall see the saviour sent of God. 
Luke3:7 Then said he to the people, that were come to be baptised of him. O generation of vipers: who hath shewed the craft(taught you) to fly (away) from (the) wrath to come?(who hath certified you, that ye shal escape ye wrath to come?)" 
Luke3:8 Bring forth due fruits of repentance; And begin not to say in yourselves, we have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you: God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham." 
Luke3:9 Now also is the axe laid unto the root(rote) of the trees. (So that)(axe put unto the tree allready) Every tree therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be hewn down, and cast into the fire." 
Luke3:10 And the people asked him, saying: What shall we do then." 
Luke3:11 He answered and said unto them: He that hath two coats, let him part with him that hath none: And he that hath meat, let him do likewise." 
Luke3:12 Then came there publicans to be baptised, and said unto him: Master, what shall we do?" 
Luke3:13 He answered(And he said) unto them: require no more than that, which is appointed unto you." 
Luke3:14 The soldiers likewise demanded of(asked) him, saying: and what shall we do? And he said to them: Do violence to no man: neither trouble any man wrongfully: And(but) be content with your wages." 
Luke3:15 As the people were in a doubt, and all men disputed(thought) in their hearts of John: Whether he were very Christ;" 
Luke3:15 As the people were in a doubt, and all men disputed(thought) in their hearts of John: Whether he were very Christ;" 
Luke3:16 John answered and said to them all: I baptise you with water, but a stronger then(than I) cometh, (after me) whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to unloose: he will baptise you with the holy ghost, and with fire," 
Luke3:16 John answered and said to them all: I baptise you with water, but a stronger then(than I) cometh, (after me) whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to unloose: he will baptise you with the holy ghost, and with fire," 
Luke3:17 which hath his fan in his hand, and will purge his floor, and will gather his(the) corn into his barn: And(but) the chaff will he burn with fire that never shall be quenched.(unquenchable fire.)" 
Luke3:18 And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people. 
Luke3:19 Then Herod the Tetrach (when he was rebuked of him for Herodias his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done)" 
Luke3:20 added this above all, and laid John prison." 
Luke3:20 added this above all, and laid John prison." 
Luke3:21 And it fortuned as all the people received baptism (And when Jesus was baptised and did pray) that heaven was opened," 
Luke3:22 and the holy ghost came down in a bodily shape like a dove upon him; And a voice came from heaven, saying: Thou art my dear son; In thee do I delight." 
Luke3:23 And Jesus himself was about thirty year of age when he began, being as men supposed(And he was taken for) the son of Joseph: which Joseph was the son of Heli:" 
Luke3:24 which was the son of Mathat: which was the son of Levi: which was the son of Melchi: which was the son of Janna: which was the son of Joseph: 
Luke3:25 which was the son of Matatthias: which was the son of Amos: which was the son of Nahum: which was the son of Esli: which was the son of Nagge: 
Luke3:26 which was the son of Maath: which was the son of Matathias: which was the son of Semei: which was the son of Joseph: which was the son of Juda: 
Luke3:27 which was the son of Johanna: which was the son of Rhesya: which was the son of Zorobabel: which was the son of Salathiel: which was the son of Neri: 
Luke3:28 which was the son of Melchi: which was the son of Addi: which was the son of Cosam: 
Luke3:29 which was the son of Helmadam: which was the son of Her: which was the son of Jeso: which was the son of Helieser: which was the son of Joram: which was the son of Mattha: which was the son of Levi: 
Luke3:30 which was the son of Simeon: which was the son of Juda: which was the son of Joseph: which was the son of Jonam: which was the son of Heliacim: 
Luke3:31 which was the son of Melea: which was the son of Menam: which was the son of Matathan: which was the son of Nathan: which was the son of David: 
Luke3:32 which was the son of Jesse: which was the son of Obed: which was the son of Boos: which was the son of Salmon: which was the son of 
Luke3:33 Naason: which was the son of Aminadab: which was the son of Aram: which was the son of Esrom: which was the son of Phares: which was the son of Juda: 
Luke3:34 which was the son of Jacob: which was the son of Ysaac: which was the son of Abraham: which was the son of Tharra: which was the son of Nachor: 
Luke3:35 which was the son of Saruch: which was the son of Ragau: which was the son of Phalec: which was the son of Heber: which was the son of Sala: 
Luke3:36 which was the son of Cainan: which was the son of Arphaxad: which was the son of Sem: which was the son of Noe: which was the son of Lameth: 
Luke3:37 which was the son of Mathusala: which was the son of Enoch: which was the son of Jareth: which was the son of Malalehel: which was the son of Cainan: 
Luke3:38 which was the son of Enos: which was the son of Seth: which was the son of Adam: which was the son of God. 
Luke4:1 Jesus then full of the holy ghost, returned from Jordan, and was carried of the spirit into a wilderness," 
Luke4:2 and was forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days ate he nothing: And when they were ended, he afterward hungered." 
Luke4:3 And the devil said unto him: if thou be the son of God, command this stone that he(it) be bread." 
Luke4:4 And Jesus answered him, saying: It is written: man shall not live by bread only, but by every word of God." 
Luke4:5 And the devil took him up into an high mountain, and shewed him all the kingdoms of the earth,(world) even in the twinkling of an eye." 
Luke4:6 And the devil said unto him: all this power will I give thee every whit, and the glory of them (for that is delivered to me, and to whosoever I will I give it)" 
Luke4:7 If thou therefore wilt worship me, they shall be all thine." 
Luke4:8 Jesus answered (him) and said unto him: hence(Avoid) from me Satan. For it is written. Thou shalt honour thy Lord God,(the LORD thy God) and him only serve." 
Luke4:9 And he carried him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him: If thou be the son of God, cast thyself down from hence." 
Luke4:10 For it is written, he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee," 
Luke4:11 and with their hands they shall stay thee up, that thou hurt(dash) not thy foot against a stone." 
Luke4:12 Jesus answered and said unto(to) him, it is said, thou shalt not tempt thy Lord God.(the LORD thy God.)" 
Luke4:13 And as soon as the devil had ended all his temptations, he departed from him for a season." 
Luke4:14 And Jesus returned by the power of the spirit into Galilee, and the fame of him went(was noised) thorow out all the region round about." 
Luke4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, and was commended of all men." 
Luke4:16 And he came to Nazareth where he was nursed, and as his custom was, went into the synagogue on the Sabbath days, and stood up for to read." 
Luke4:17 And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place, where it was written:" 
Luke4:18 The spirit of the Lord upon me, because he hath anointed me; To preach the gospel(gospell) to the poor he hath sent me; And to heal which are troubled in their hearts:(broken hearted:) To preach deliverance to the captive; And sight to the blind; And freely to set at liberty them that are bruised;" 
Luke4:19 And to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. 
Luke4:20 And he closed the book, and gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all that were in the synagogue, were fastened on him." 
Luke4:21 And he began to say unto them. This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. 
Luke4:22 And all they bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words, which proceeded out of his mouth, and said: Is not this Joseph's son?" 
Luke4:23 And he said unto them: Ye may very well say unto me this proverb. Physician, heal thyself. Whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do the same (here) likewise in thine own country." 
Luke4:24 And he said: Verily I say unto you: No prophet is accepted in his own country. 
Luke4:25 But I tell you of a truth, Many widows were in Israel in the days of Helyas, when heaven was shut three year and six months, when great famishment was throughout all the land;" 
Luke4:26 And unto none of them was Helyas sent, save into Sarepta besides Sydon unto a woman that was a widow." 
Luke4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Heliseus the prophet, and yet none of them was healed, saving(cleansed, save only) Naaman of Siria." 
Luke4:28 And as many as were in the synagogue when they heard that, were filled with wrath" 
Luke4:29 and rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him even unto the edge of the hill, whereon their city was built, to cast him down headlong." 
Luke4:30 But he went his way even thorow the midst of them: 
Luke4:31 and came into Capernaum a city of Galilee, and there taught them on the Sabbath days." 
Luke4:32 And they were astonied at his doctrine: for his preaching was with power. 
Luke4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a foul spirit within him,(a spirit of an unclean devil) and cried with a loud voice," 
Luke4:34 saying: let me alone, what hast thou to do with us, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee what thou art, thou art(even) the holy man of God." 
Luke4:35 And Jesus rebuked him, saying: hold thy peace, and come out of him. And the devil threw him in the midst of them and came out of him, and hurt him not." 
Luke4:36 And fear came on them all; And they spake among themselves, saying: what manner a thing is this? For with authority and power he commandeth the foul spirits and they come out?" 
Luke4:37 And the fame of him spread abroad(was noised) thorow out all places of the country round about. 
Luke4:38 And he rose up and came out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's mother-in-law was taken with a great fever; And they made intercession to him for her." 
Luke4:39 And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever: and it left her. And immediately she (a) rose and ministered unto them." 
Luke4:40 When the son was down, all they that had sick, taken with divers diseases, brought them unto him: and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.(made them whole)" 
Luke4:41 And devils also came out of many of them, crying and saying: thou art Christ the son of God. And he rebuked them, and suffered them not to speak, for they knew that he was Christ." 
Luke4:42 As soon as it was day, he departed and went away into a desert place, and the people sought him and came to him, and kept him that he should not depart from them." 
Luke4:43 And he said unto them: I must to other cities also preach the word(the Gospell of the kingdom) of God, for therefore am I sent." 
Luke4:44 And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee. 
Luke5:1 It came to pass as the people pressed upon him, to hear the word of God, that he stood by the lake of Genazareth:" 
Luke5:2 and saw two ships stand by the lakeside, for(but) the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets." 
Luke5:3 Jesus(And he) entered into one of the ships, which pertained to Simon, and prayed him, that he would carry him(thrust out) a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people out of the ship." 
Luke5:4 When he had left speaking, he said unto Simon: Carry us(Launch out) into the deep, and let slip thy net(your nets) to make a draught." 
Luke5:5 And Simon answered, and said to him: Master we have laboured all night, and have taken nothing. Yet now(Neverthelater) at thy word I will loose forth the net." 
Luke5:6 And when they had so done, they inclosed(took) a great multitude of fishes. And the(their) net brake:" 
Luke5:7 and(but) they made signs to their fellows which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and they filled both the ships, that they sunk again." 
Luke5:8 When Simon Peter saw that, he fell down at Jesus' knees saying: Lord go from me, for I am a sinful man." 
Luke5:9 For he was utterly astonied, and all that were with him at the draught of fish which they took:" 
Luke5:10 and so was also James and John the sons of Zebedei, which were partakers(partners) with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon: fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men." 
Luke5:10 and so was also James and John the sons of Zebedei, which were partakers(partners) with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon: fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men." 
Luke5:10 and so was also James and John the sons of Zebedei, which were partakers(partners) with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon: fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men." 
Luke5:11 And they brought the ships to land, and forsook(left) all, and followed him." 
Luke5:12 And it fortuned as he was in a certain city, and behold there was a man full of leprosy: and when he had spied Jesus, he fell on his face and besought him saying: Lord if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean." 
Luke5:13 And he stretched forth his(the) hand, and touched him saying: I will, be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him." 
Luke5:14 And he warned him, that he should tell no man: but that he should go and shew himself to the priest, and offer for his cleansing according as Moses commandment was, for a witness unto them." 
Luke5:15 But his name(fame) spread (so much) the more abroad, and the(much) people came together to hear, and to be healed of him, of (their) infirmities." 
Luke5:16 And he kept himself apart in the wildernesses, and gave himself to prayer." 
Luke5:17 And it happened on a certain day, that he taught, and there sat the pharisees, and doctors of law, which were come out of all the towns of Galilee, Jewry,(Iurie) and Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was to heal them." 
Luke5:18 And behold, men brought a man lying in his bed, which was taken with a palsy, and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him." 
Luke5:19 And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in, because of the press, they went up on(climbed up) the top of the house, and let him down thorow the tiling, bed and all in the midst(among them) before Jesus." 
Luke5:20 When he saw their faith he said unto him: man thy sins are forgiven thee. 
Luke5:21 And the scribes, and the pharisees, began to think saying: What fellow is this: which speaketh blasphemy? Who can forgive sins, but God only?" 
Luke5:22 When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered and said unto them: What think ye in your hearts?" 
Luke5:23 Whether is easier to say, thy sins are forgiven thee, or to say: Rise and walk?" 
Luke5:24 (But) That ye may know that the son of man hath power to forgive sins on earth, he said unto the sick of the palsy: I say to thee, arise, take up thy bed and go home to thy house." 
Luke5:25 And immediately he rose up before them all, and took up his bed whereon he lay, and departed to his own house praising God." 
Luke5:26 And they were ail amazed, and they lauded God, and were filled with fear, saying: We have seen strange(marvelous) things today." 
Luke5:27 And after that he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom, and said unto him: follow me." 
Luke5:28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him." 
Luke5:29 And that same Levi made him a great feast at home in his own house. And there was a great company of publicans, and of other that sat at meat with him." 
Luke5:30 And the scribes and pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying: Why eat ye and drink ye, with publicans and sinners?" 
Luke5:31 Jesus answered and said unto them: They that are whole, need not of the physician: but they that are sick." 
Luke5:32 I came not to call the righteous to repentance: but the sinners.(to repentance.) 
Luke5:33 (Then) They said unto him: Why do the disciples of John fast often and pray: and the disciples of the pharisees also: and thine eat and drink? 
Luke5:33 (Then) They said unto him: Why do the disciples of John fast often and pray: and the disciples of the pharisees also: and thine eat and drink? 
Luke5:34 To whom he said:(And he said unto them:) Can ye make the Children of the wedding fast, as long as the bridegroom is present with them?" 
Luke5:35 The days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, then shall they fast in those days." 
Luke5:36 (Then) He spake unto them in a similitude: No man putteth a piece of a new garment, into an old vesture: for if he do, then breaketh(renteth) he the new and the piece that was taken out of the new, agreeth not with the old." 
Luke5:37 Also no man poureth new wine into old vessels, (For) if he do, the new wine breaketh the vessels, and runneth out itself, and the vessels perish:" 
Luke5:38 But new wine must be poured into new vessels, and both are preserved." 
Luke5:39 Also no man that drinketh old wine, straightway can away with new, for he sayeth: the old is pleasanter." 
Luke6:1 It happened on an after(after principal) Sabbath, they(that he) went thorow the corn field, and (that) his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and ate them, and rubbed them in their hands." 
Luke6:2 (And) Certain of the pharisees said unto them: Why do ye that which is not lawful to be done on the Sabbath days? 
Luke6:3 (And) Jesus answered them and said: Have ye not read what David did, when he himself was an hungered,(was hungry) and they which were with him:" 
Luke6:4 how he went into the house of God, and took and ate the loaves of hallowed bread,(shewbread) and gave also to them which were with him: which was not lawful to eat, but for the priests only." 
Luke6:5 And he said unto them: The son of man is Lord even of the Sabbath day. 
Luke6:6 And it fortuned in another Sabbath also, that he entered into the synagogue and taught. And there was a man, whose right hand was dried up.(withered)" 
Luke6:7 (And) The scribes, and pharisees watched him, to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath day or not, that they might find an accusation(occasion) against him." 
Luke6:8 But he knew(perceived) their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand: Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. (And) He arose, and stepped forth." 
Luke6:9 Then said Jesus unto them: I will ask you a question: Whether is it lawful on the Sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life or for to destroy it?" 
Luke6:10 And he beheld them all in compass, and said unto the man: Stretch forth thy hand. (And) He did so, and his hand was restored, and made as whole as the other." 
Luke6:11 And they were filled full of madness, and communed one with another, what they might do to Jesu." 
Luke6:12 (And) It fortuned in those days, (that) he went out into a mountain for to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God." 
Luke6:13 And as soon as it was day, he called his disciples, and of them he chose twelve, which also he called his apostles." 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom also he named Peter: and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartlemew;" 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom also he named Peter: and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartlemew;" 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom also he named Peter: and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartlemew;" 
Luke6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alpheus and Simon called Zelotes," 
Luke6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alpheus and Simon called Zelotes," 
Luke6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alpheus and Simon called Zelotes," 
Luke6:16 and Judas James' son, and Judas Iscariot, which same was the traitor." 
Luke6:16 and Judas James' son, and Judas Iscariot, which same was the traitor." 
Luke6:17 And he came down with them and stood in the plain field with the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all parts of Jury(Iurie) and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases," 
Luke6:18 and they also that were vexed with foul spirits, and they were healed." 
Luke6:19 And all the people pressed(sought) to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all." 
Luke6:20 And he lifted up his eyes upon the disciples, and said: Blessed are(be) ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God." 
Luke6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger: (now) for ye shall be satisfied. Blessed are ye that weep: (now) for ye shall laugh. 
Luke6:22 Blessed are ye when men hate you, and thrust you out of their company, and rail on(revile) you, and abhor your name, as an evil thing, for the son of man's sake." 
Luke6:23 Rejoice ye then, and be glad: for behold your reward is great in heaven. After this manner their fathers entreated the prophets." 
Luke6:24 But woe be to you that are rich: for ye have therein your consolation. 
Luke6:25 Woe be to you that are full: for ye shall hunger. Woe be to you that now laugh: for ye shall wail, and weep." 
Luke6:26 Woe be to you when all men praise you: for so did their fathers to the false prophets. 
Luke6:27 But I say unto you which hear: Love your enemies. Do good to them which hate you. 
Luke6:28 Bless them that curse you. And pray for them which wrongfully trouble you. 
Luke6:29 And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek, offer also the other. And him that taketh away thy gown, forbid not to take thy coat also." 
Luke6:30 Give to every man that asketh of thee. And if any man(of him that taketh) that take away thy goods, ask them not again." 
Luke6:31 And as ye would that men should do to you: so do ye to them likewise. 
Luke6:32 If ye love them which love you: what thank are ye worthy of? seeing that(For) the very sinners love their lovers. 
Luke6:33 And if ye do for them which do for you: what thank are ye worthy of? For the very sinners do even the same. 
Luke6:34 If ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive: what thank shall ye have: for the very sinners, lend to sinners, to receive as much again." 
Luke6:35 (Wherefore,) Love ye your enemies, do good, and lend, looking for nothing again: and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the highest: for he is kind unto the unkind,(unthankful) and to the evil." 
Luke6:36 Be ye therefore merciful, as your father is merciful." 
Luke6:37 Judge not and ye shall not be judged. Condemn not: and ye shall not be condemned. Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven." 
Luke6:38 Give, and it shall be given unto you: good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosoms. For with what measure ye mete, with the same shall men mete(shall it be measured) to you again." 
Luke6:39 And he put forth a similitude unto them: Can the blind lead the blind? Do they not both then fall into the ditch? 
Luke6:40 The disciple is not above his master. Every man shall be perfect, even as his master is." 
Luke6:41 Why seest thou a mote in thy brother's eye, and considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?" 
Luke6:42 Other(Either) how canst thou say to thy brother: Brother let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye: when thou perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Hypocrite, cast out the beam out of thine own eye first, and then shalt thou see perfectly,(clearly) to pull out the mote out of thy brother's eye." 
Luke6:43 It is not a good tree that bringeth forth evil fruit: Neither is that an evil tree, that bringeth forth good fruit." 
Luke6:44 For every tree is known by his fruit. Neither of thorns gather men figs, nor of bushes gather they grapes." 
Luke6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And the(an) evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil. For of the abundance of the heart, the(his) mouth(mought) speaketh." 
Luke6:46 Why call ye me Master, Master: and do not as I bid you?" 
Luke6:47 whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doth the same, I will shew you to whom he is like." 
Luke6:48 He is like a man which built an house: which(and) digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock. When the waters arose, the flood beat upon that house, and could not move it. For it was grounded upon a rock." 
Luke6:49 But he that heareth and doth not, is like a man, that without foundation built an house upon the earth, against which, the flood(did) beat: and it fell by and by. And the fall of that house was great." 
Luke7:1 When he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum." 
Luke7:2 And the servant of a certain Centurion was sick, and ready to die, whom he made much of." 
Luke7:3 And when he heard of Jesu, he sent unto him the seniors(elders) of the jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant." 
Luke7:4 And they came to Jesus and besought him instantly, saying: He is worthy that thou shouldest do this for him." 
Luke7:5 For he loveth our nation,(people) and hath built us a synagogue." 
Luke7:6 And Jesus went with them. And when he was not far from the house, the Centurion sent to him his friends, saying unto him: Lord trouble not thyself, for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter into my house.(under my roof.)" 
Luke7:7 Wherefore I thought not myself worthy to come unto thee: but say the word and my servant shall be whole. 
Luke7:8 For I likewise am a man under power,(subject to the higher authority) and have under me soldiers, and I say unto one, go: and he goeth. And to another, come: and he cometh. And to my servant, do this: and he doeth it." 
Luke7:9 When Jesus heard this, he marveled at him, and turned him about and said to the people that followed him: I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no not in Israel, certainly." 
Luke7:10 And they that were sent, turned back home again, and found the servant that was sick whole." 
Luke7:11 And it fortuned after that, (that) he went into a city called Naym, and (many of) his disciples went with him, and a great number of(much) people." 
Luke7:12 When he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, which was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and much people of the city was with her." 
Luke7:13 And (when) the Lord saw her, and(he) had compassion on her, and said unto her: weep not." 
Luke7:14 And (he) went and touched the coffin, and they that bare him stood still. And he said: Young man, I say unto thee, arise." 
Luke7:15 And the dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother." 
Luke7:16 And there came a fear on them all. And they glorified(praised) God saying: a great prophet is risen among us, and God hath visited his people." 
Luke7:17 And this rumor(fame) of him went forth throughout(was noised in) all Jewry,(Iurie) and thorowout all the regions which lie round about." 
Luke7:18 And unto John shewed his disciples(the disciples of John shewed him) of all these things. 
Luke7:18 And unto John shewed his disciples(the disciples of John shewed him) of all these things. 
Luke7:19 And John called unto him two of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus saying: Art thou he that shall come: or shall we look for another?" 
Luke7:19 And John called unto him two of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus saying: Art thou he that shall come: or shall we look for another?" 
Luke7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said: John baptist sent us unto thee saying: Art thou he that shall come: or shall we wait for another?" 
Luke7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said: John baptist sent us unto thee saying: Art thou he that shall come: or shall we wait for another?" 
Luke7:21 (And) At that(the) same time, he cured many of their infirmities(healed he many from sicknesses) and plagues; And of evil spirits, and unto many that were blind, he gave sight." 
Luke7:22 And he(Iesu) answered, and said unto them: Go your ways and shew John, what things ye have heard and seen: how that the blind see, the halt go, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead arise: To the poor is the gospel(glad tidings) preached," 
Luke7:22 And he(Iesu) answered, and said unto them: Go your ways and shew John, what things ye have heard and seen: how that the blind see, the halt go, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead arise: To the poor is the gospel(glad tidings) preached," 
Luke7:23 and happy(blessed) is he that falleth not, by reason of me.(is not offended by me)" 
Luke7:24 When the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people of John: What went ye out for to see into the desert?(wilderness?) went ye to see a reed shaken with the wind?" 
Luke7:24 When the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people of John: What went ye out for to see into the desert?(wilderness?) went ye to see a reed shaken with the wind?" 
Luke7:25 But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts." 
Luke7:26 But what went ye forth to see? A prophet? Yea I say to you, and more than a prophet." 
Luke7:27 This is he of whom it is written: Behold I send my messenger before thy face, to prepare thy way before thee." 
Luke7:28 (For) I say unto you: a greater prophet than John, among women's children, is there none. Nevertheless one that is less in the kingdom of God, is greater than he." 
Luke7:28 (For) I say unto you: a greater prophet than John, among women's children, is there none. Nevertheless one that is less in the kingdom of God, is greater than he." 
Luke7:29 And all the people that heard, and the publicans justified God, which(and) were baptised in(with) the baptism of John." 
Luke7:29 And all the people that heard, and the publicans justified God, which(and) were baptised in(with) the baptism of John." 
Luke7:30 But the pharisees and scribes despised the counsel of God, against themselves, and were not baptised of him." 
Luke7:31 And the Lord said: Whereunto shall I liken the men of this generation, and what thing are they like?" 
Luke7:32 They are like unto children sitting in the market place, and crying one to another, and saying: We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced: We have mourned to you, and ye have not wept." 
Luke7:33 For John baptist came unto you neither(nether) eating bread, nor(ner) drinking wine, and ye say: he hath the devil." 
Luke7:33 For John baptist came unto you neither(nether) eating bread, nor(ner) drinking wine, and ye say: he hath the devil." 
Luke7:34 The son of man is come and eateth and drinketh, and ye say: behold a man which is a glutton, and a drinker of wine, the(a) friend of publicans and sinners." 
Luke7:35 And(Yet is) wisdom justified of all her children. 
Luke7:36 And one of the pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the pharisee's house, and sat down to meat." 
Luke7:37 And behold a woman in that city, which was a sinner, as soon as she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the pharisee's house, she brought an alabaster box of ointment," 
Luke7:38 and she stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet, with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with ointment." 
Luke7:39 When the pharisee which bade him to his house, saw that, he spake within himself: saying: If this man were a prophet, he would surely have known who and what manner woman this is which toucheth him, for she is a sinner." 
Luke7:40 And Jesus answered, and said unto him: Simon I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he said: Master say on." 
Luke7:41 There was a certain lender, which had two debtors, the one ought five hundred pence, and the other fifty." 
Luke7:42 When they had nothing to pay, he forgave them both. Which of them tell me, will love him most?" 
Luke7:43 Simon answered, and said: I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him: Thou hast truly judged.(judged right)" 
Luke7:44 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon: Seest thou this woman? I entered into thy house, and thou gavest me no water to my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head." 
Luke7:45 Thou gavest me no kiss: but she, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet." 
Luke7:46 Mine head with oil thou didst not anoint: but she hath anointed my feet with ointment. 
Luke7:47 Wherefore I say unto thee: many sins are forgiven her, because(for) she loved much. To whom less is forgiven, the same doeth less love." 
Luke7:48 And he said unto her thy sins are forgiven thee. 
Luke7:49 And they that sat at meat(the table) with him, began to say within themselves: Who is this which forgiveth sins also?" 
Luke7:50 And he said to the woman: Thy faith hath saved thee; Go in peace. 
Luke8:1 And it fortuned after that, (that) he himself went throughout cities and towns, preaching, and shewing the kingdom of God, and the twelve with him." 
Luke8:2 And also certain women, which were healed of evil spirits, and infirmities: Mary called Magdalen, out of whom went seven devils," 
Luke8:3 and Joanna the wife of Chusa, Herod's steward; And Susanna; And many other: which ministered unto him(them) of their substance." 
Luke8:4 When much people were gathered together,(to gether) and were come to him out of the(all) cities, he spake by a similitude:" 
Luke8:5 A sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and it was trodden under feet, and the fowls of the air devoured it up." 
Luke8:6 And some fell on stone, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moistness." 
Luke8:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it." 
Luke8:8 And some fell on good ground, and sprang up and bare fruit, an hundred fold. And as he said these things, he cried: He that hath ears to hear, let him hear." 
Luke8:9 And his disciples asked him, saying: what manner similitude this should be.(is this?)" 
Luke8:10 And he said: unto you is it given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God: but to other in similitudes, that when they see, they should not see, and when they hear they should not understand." 
Luke8:11 The similitude is this. The seed is the word of God. 
Luke8:12 Those that are beside the way, are they that hear, and afterward cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved." 
Luke8:13 They on the stones, are they which when they hear the word receive it(,receive the word) with joy. And(But) these have no roots, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation go(they fall) away." 
Luke8:14 (And) That which fell among thorns, are they which hear, and go forth, and are choked with cares and (with) riches, and voluptuous living, and bring forth no fruit." 
Luke8:15 That in the good ground, are they which with a good and pure heart, hear the word, and keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience." 
Luke8:16 No man lighteth a candle, and covereth it under a vessel, neither putteth it under the table: but setteth it on a candlestick, that they that enter in, may see (the) light." 
Luke8:17 No thing is in secret,(hid) that shall not come abroad:(not be openly shewed) Neither any thing hid,(secret) that shall not be known, and come to light." 
Luke8:18 Take heed therefore how ye hear. For whosoever hath, to him shall be given: And whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken, even that same which he supposeth that he hath." 
Luke8:19 Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for press." 
Luke8:20 And they told him saying: Thy mother and thy brethren, stand without, and would see thee." 
Luke8:21 He answered, and said unto them: my mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God, and do it." 
Luke8:22 (And) It chanced on a certain day that he went into a ship, and his disciples also, and he said unto them: Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth.(they thrust off from the land)" 
Luke8:23 And as they sailed, he fell asleep, and there arose a storm of wind in the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy.(waves fell upon them, and they stood in great jeopardy)" 
Luke8:24 And they went to him and awoke him, saying: Master, Master, we are lost. (Then) He arose and rebuked the wind, and the tempest of water, and they ceased, and it waxed calm." 
Luke8:25 And he said unto them: where is your faith? They feared and wondered, saying one to another: what fellow is this? for he commandeth both the winds and water, and they obey him?" 
Luke8:26 And they sailed unto the region of the Gaderens, which is over against Galilee." 
Luke8:27 (And) As he went out of the ship to land, there met him a certain man out of the city, which had a devil long time, and ware no clothes, neither abode in any house: but among graves." 
Luke8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said: What have I to do with thee Jesus the son of the God most highest? I beseech thee torment me not." 
Luke8:29 Then he commanded the foul spirit to come out of the man. For often times he caught him, and he was bound with chains, and kept with fetters: and he brake the bonds, and was carried of the fiend,(devil) into wilderness." 
Luke8:30 (And) Jesus asked him saying: what is thy name? And he said: Legion, because many devils were entered into him." 
Luke8:31 And they besought him, that he would not command them to go out into the deep." 
Luke8:32 (And) There was there by an herd of many swine, feeding on an hill, and they prayed(besought) him, that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them." 
Luke8:33 Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine: And the herd took their course, and ran headlong(rushed headlings with a storm) into the lake, and were choked.(drowned)" 
Luke8:34 When the herdmen saw what had chanced, they fled, and told it in the city and in the villages." 
Luke8:35 And they came out to see what was done. And came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus clothed, and in his right mind, and they were afraid." 
Luke8:36 They also which saw it told them by what means he that was possessed of the devil, was healed." 
Luke8:37 And all the whole multitude of the (country of the) Gaderens, besought him, that he would depart from them: for they were taken with great fear. And he gat him into the ship and returned back again." 
Luke8:38 Then the man out of whom the devils were departed, besought him, that he might be with him: But Jesus sent him away, saying:" 
Luke8:39 Go home again into thine own house, and shew what (great) things God hath done to thee. And he went his way, and preached thorow out all the city what (great) things Jesus had done unto him." 
Luke8:40 (And) It fortuned that when Jesus was come again, (that) the people received him. For they all longed(waited) for him." 
Luke8:41 And behold there came a man named Jairus (and he was a ruler of the synagogue) and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house," 
Luke8:42 for he had but a daughter only, of(upon a) twelve year of age, and she lay a dying. (And) As he went the people thronged him." 
Luke8:43 And a woman having an issue of blood twelve year (which had spent all her substance among Physicians, neither could be helped of any)" 
Luke8:44 came behind him, and touched the hem of his garment, and immediately her issue of blood staunched." 
Luke8:45 And Jesus said: Who is it that touched me? when every man denied, Peter and they that were with him, said: Master, the people thrust thee and vex thee: and thou sayest, who touched me?" 
Luke8:46 And Jesus said: Somebody touched me. For I perceive that virtue is gone out of me. 
Luke8:47 When the woman saw, that she was not hid from him, she came trembling, and fell at his feet, and told him before all the people, for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately." 
Luke8:48 And he said unto her: Daughter be of good comfort. Thy faith hath made thee safe,(whole) go in peace." 
Luke8:49 While he yet spake, there came one from the rulers of the synagogi's house, which said to him: Thy daughter is dead, disease not the master." 
Luke8:50 When Jesus heard that; He answered to the maidens father saying: Fear not, believe only, and she shall be made whole." 
Luke8:51 And when he came to the house, he suffered no man to go in with him, save Peter, James and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden." 
Luke8:51 And when he came to the house, he suffered no man to go in with him, save Peter, James and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden." 
Luke8:51 And when he came to the house, he suffered no man to go in with him, save Peter, James and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden." 
Luke8:52 Every body wept and sorrowed for her. And he said Weep not: for she is not dead, but sleepeth." 
Luke8:53 And they laughed him to scorn. For they knew that she was dead. 
Luke8:54 And he thrust them all out at the doors, and caught her by the hand, and cried saying: Maid arise." 
Luke8:55 And her spirit came again, and she rose straightway. And he commanded to give her meat." 
Luke8:56 And the father and the mother of her(her elders) were astonied. But he warned (them) that they should tell no man, what was done." 
Luke9:1 Then called he the twelve together,(to gether) and gave them power, and authority, over all devils. And that they might heal diseases." 
Luke9:2 And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to cure the sick." 
Luke9:3 And he said to them: Take no thing to succor you by the way: neither staff, nor scrip, neither bread neither money, neither have two coats." 
Luke9:4 And whatsoever house ye enter into there abide, and thence depart." 
Luke9:5 And whosoever will not receive you, when ye depart from(go out of) that city, shake off the very dust from your feet, for a testimony against(witness over) them." 
Luke9:6 (And) They went forth,(out) and went thorow the towns, preaching the gospel,(gospell) and healing everywhere." 
Luke9:7 (And) Herod the tetrarch heard of all that by him was done,(was done of him) and doubted because that it was said of some, that John was risen again from death." 
Luke9:7 (And) Herod the tetrarch heard of all that by him was done,(was done of him) and doubted because that it was said of some, that John was risen again from death." 
Luke9:8 And of some that Helias had appeared. And of other(some) that one of the old prophets was risen again. 
Luke9:9 And Herod said: John have I beheaded: who (then) is this of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him. 
Luke9:9 And Herod said: John have I beheaded: who (then) is this of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him. 
Luke9:10 And the apostles returned,(came again) and told him all that(what great things) they had done. And he took them and went aside into a solitary place, nigh to a(by the) city called Bethsaida." 
Luke9:11 (And) The people knew of it, and followed him. And he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God. And healed them that had need to be healed." 
Luke9:12 (And when) The day began to wear away. Then came the twelve, and said unto him: send the people away, that they may go into the towns, and villages roundabout, and lodge, and get meat, for we are here in a place of wilderness." 
Luke9:13 Then said he(But he said) unto them: Give ye them to eat. And they said: We have no more but five loaves and two fishes, except we should go and buy meat for all this people." 
Luke9:14 And they were about a five thousand men. (And) He said unto his disciples: Cause them to sit down by fifties in a company. 
Luke9:15 And they did so, and made them all sit down." 
Luke9:16 (And) He took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looked up to heaven, and blessed them, and brake, and gave to his (the) disciples, to set before the people." 
Luke9:17 And they all ate, and were(all) satisfied. And there was taken up of that remained to them, twelve baskets full of broken meat." 
Luke9:18 (And) It fortuned as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him, and he asked them saying: Who say the people that I am?" 
Luke9:19 They answered and said: John baptist. Some say Helias. And some say, one of the old prophets is risen again." 
Luke9:19 They answered and said: John baptist. Some say Helias. And some say, one of the old prophets is risen again." 
Luke9:20 (And) He said unto them: Who say ye that I am? Peter answered and said: thou art the Christ of God. 
Luke9:21 (And) He warned(charged them straitly) and commanded them, that they should tell no man that thing," 
Luke9:22 saying: That the son of man must suffer many things, and be reproved of the seniors,(elders) and of the high priests and scribes, and be slain, and the third day rise again." 
Luke9:23 And he said to them all, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take (up) his cross on him daily, and follow me." 
Luke9:24 Whosoever will save his life, shall lose it. And whosoever shall lose his life, for my sake, the same shall save it." 
Luke9:25 For what shall it advantage a man, to win the whole world, if he lose himself: or run in damage of himself?" 
Luke9:26 For whosoever is ashamed of me, and of my sayings: of him shall the son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in his own majesty,(glory) and in the majesty(glory) of his father, and of the holy angels." 
Luke9:27 (And) I tell you of a surety: Some there are(be) of them that here stand, which shall not taste of death till they see the kingdom of God." 
Luke9:28 And it followed about an eight days after those sayings, (that) he took Peter, James, and John, and went up into a mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 And it followed about an eight days after those sayings, (that) he took Peter, James, and John, and went up into a mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 And it followed about an eight days after those sayings, (that) he took Peter, James, and John, and went up into a mountain to pray." 
Luke9:29 And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was changed, and his garment was white and shone." 
Luke9:30 And behold, two men talked with him, and they were Moses and Helias," 
Luke9:31 which appeared gloriously, and spake of his departing, which he should end(fulfill) at Jerusalem." 
Luke9:32 Peter and they that were with him, were heavy(with) asleep. And when they woke, they saw his majesty,(glory) and two men standing with him." 
Luke9:33 And it chanced as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus: Master, it is good being here for us. Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Helias. And wist not what he said." 
Luke9:34 While he thus spake there came a cloud and shadowed them and they feared when they entered into(were come under) the cloud. 
Luke9:35 And there came a voice out of the cloud saying: This is my dear son, hear him." 
Luke9:36 And as soon as the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close: and told no man in those days any of those things, which they had seen." 
Luke9:37 (And) It chanced on the next day as they came down from the hill, much people came and met him." 
Luke9:38 And behold a man of the company cried out saying: Master, I beseech thee behold my son, for he is all that I have:" 
Luke9:39 and see, a spirit taketh him, and suddenly he crieth, and he teareth him that he foameth again, and unethe(with much pain) departeth he from him, when he hath rent him:" 
Luke9:40 And I have besought thy disciples to cast him out, and they could not." 
Luke9:41 Jesus answered, and said: O generation without faith,(unfaithful) and crooked: how long shall I be with you? And shall suffer you? Bring thy son hither." 
Luke9:42 As he yet was a coming, the fiend rent him, and tare him. (And) Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him to his father." 
Luke9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. While they wondered every one at all things which he did: He said unto his disciples: 
Luke9:44 Let these sayings sink down into(Comprehend these sayings in) your ears. The time will come, when the son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men." 
Luke9:45 But they wist not what that word meant, and it was hid from them that they understood it not. And they feared to ask him of that saying.(word)" 
Luke9:46 Then there arose a disputation among them, who should be the greatest." 
Luke9:47 When Jesus perceived the thoughts of their hearts, he took a child, and set him hard by him," 
Luke9:48 and said unto them: Whosoever receiveth this child in my name, receiveth me. And whosoever receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me. For he that amongst you, is the least,(For he that is least among you all) the same shall be great." 
Luke9:49 (And) John answered and said: Master we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us." 
Luke9:49 (And) John answered and said: Master we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us." 
Luke9:50 And Jesus said unto him: forbid ye him not. For he that is not against you,(us) is with you.(us)" 
Luke9:51 And it followed when the time was come that he should be received up and that he determined himself(up, then he set his face) to go to Jerusalem:" 
Luke9:52 and sent messengers before him. And they went, and entered into a city of the Samaritans to make ready(prepare lodging) for him." 
Luke9:53 And(But) they would not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem." 
Luke9:54 When his disciples, James, and John, saw that, they said: Lord, wilt thou that we command, that fire come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Helias did?" 
Luke9:54 When his disciples, James, and John, saw that, they said: Lord, wilt thou that we command, that fire come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Helias did?" 
Luke9:54 When his disciples, James, and John, saw that, they said: Lord, wilt thou that we command, that fire come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Helias did?" 
Luke9:55 Jesus turned about, and rebuked them saying: ye wot not what manner spirit ye are of.(Know ye not, what maner of spirit ye are of?)" 
Luke9:56 The son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another town." 
Luke9:57 (And) It chanced as he went on their journey,(in the way) a certain man said unto him: I will follow thee whithersoever thou go." 
Luke9:58 Jesus said unto him: foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests: but the son of man hath not whereon to lay his head." 
Luke9:59 And he said unto another: follow me. And the same said: Lord suffer me(Sir, give me leave) first to go and bury my father." 
Luke9:60 Jesus said unto him. Let the dead, bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God." 
Luke9:61 And another said: I will follow thee Lord: But let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house." 
Luke9:62 Jesus said unto him: No man that putteth his hand to the plough, and looketh back, is apt to(mete for) the kingdom of God." 
Luke10:1 After that,(these things) the Lord appointed other seventy (and two) also, and sent them, two and two, before his face,(him) into every city, and place, whither he himself would come." 
Luke10:2 And (he) said unto them: the harvest is great: but the laborers are few. Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest, to send forth laborers into his harvest." 
Luke10:3 Go your ways. Behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves." 
Luke10:4 Bear no wallet, neither scrip, nor shoes, and salute no man by the way." 
Luke10:5 In (to) whatsoever house ye enter in, first say: Peace be to this house." 
Luke10:6 And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon him, if not, it shall return to you again." 
Luke10:7 And in the same house tarry still eating and drinking, such as they have. For the laborer is worthy of his reward. Go not from house to house:" 
Luke10:8 and into whatsoever city ye enter, if they receive you, eat whatsoever is(such things as are) set before you," 
Luke10:9 and heal the sick that are there, and say unto them: the kingdom of God is come nigh upon you." 
Luke10:10 But into whatsoever city ye shall enter, if they receive you not, go your ways out into the streets of the same, and say:" 
Luke10:11 even the very dust, which cleaveth on us of your city, we wipe off against you: Notwithstanding, mark this, that the kingdom of God was come nigh upon you." 
Luke10:12 Yea and I say unto you: that it shall be easier in that day, for Sodom than for that city." 
Luke10:13 Woe be to thee Chorazin: woe be to thee Bethsaida. For if the miracles had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you, they had a great while agone repented, sitting in hair(sackcloth) and ashes." 
Luke10:14 Nevertheless it shall be easier for Tyre and Sidon, at the judgement, than for you." 
Luke10:15 And thou Capernaum which art exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell;" 
Luke10:16 whosoever(He that) heareth you, heareth me: And whosoever(he that) despiseth you, despiseth me. And he that despiseth me, despiseth him that sent me." 
Luke10:17 (And) The seventy returned again with joy saying: Lord even the very devils are subdued to us thorow thy name. 
Luke10:18 And he said unto them: I saw sathan, as it had been lightning, fall down from heaven." 
Luke10:19 Behold I give unto you power to tread on serpents, and scorpions, and upon(over) all manner power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you." 
Luke10:20 Nevertheless, in this rejoice not, that the spirits are under your power:(subdued unto you) But rejoice because your names are written in heaven." 
Luke10:21 That same time rejoiced Jesus in the spirit,(holy ghost) and said: I praise(confess unto) thee father Lord of heaven and earth, because(that) thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast opened them to the foolish.(babes.) Even so father, for so pleased it thee." 
Luke10:22 All things are given me of my father. And no man knoweth who the son is, but the father: neither who the father is, save the son, and he to whom the son will shew him." 
Luke10:23 And he turned to his disciples, and said secretly: Happy(said in especial: Blessed) are the eyes, which see that ye see." 
Luke10:24 For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them: And to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them:" 
Luke10:25 And mark;(behold) A certain lawyer(scribe) stood up, and tempted him saying: Master what shall I do, to inherit eternal(everlasting) life?" 
Luke10:26 He said unto him: What is written in the law? How readest thou? 
Luke10:27 And he answered and said: Thou shalt love thy Lord God, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself." 
Luke10:28 And he said unto him: Thou hast answered right. This do and thou shalt live. 
Luke10:29 He willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus: Who is then my neighbor?" 
Luke10:30 Jesus answered and said: A certain man descended from Jerusalem(Ierusalem) into Jericho;(Herico) And fell into the hands of thieves,(among murthurers) which robbed him of his raiment(clothes) and wounded him, and departed leaving him half dead." 
Luke10:31 And it(by) chanced that there came a certain priest that same way, and(when he) saw him, and(he) passed by." 
Luke10:32 And likewise a levite, when he was come nigh to the place, went and looked on him, and passed by." 
Luke10:33 Then a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came nigh unto him, and beheld(when he saw) him, and had compassion on him," 
Luke10:34 and came(went) to him, and bound up his wounds, and poured in wine, and oil, and laid(put) him on his (own) beast, and brought him to a common hostry,(inn) and drest(made provision for) him." 
Luke10:35 And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host and said unto him: Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest above this,(more) when I come again I will recompense(pay it) thee." 
Luke10:36 Which now of these three, thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell into the thieves(among murtherers) hands?" 
Luke10:37 And he answered:(said:) he that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him. Go and do thou likewise. 
Luke10:38 It fortuned as they went, that he entered into a certain town. And a certain woman named Martha, received him into her house." 
Luke10:39 And this woman had a sister called Mary, which sat at Jesus' feet, and heard Jesus(his) preaching:(hearkened unto his word)" 
Luke10:40 (And) Martha was cumbered about much serving, and stood and said: Master, dost thou not care, that my sister hath left me to minister alone? Bid her therefore, that she help me." 
Luke10:41 And Jesus answered, and said unto her: Martha, Martha, thou art busied,(carest) and troublest thyself,(art troubled) about many things:" 
Luke10:42 verily one is needful, Mary hath chosen her a(that) good part, which shall not be taken away from her." 
Luke11:1 And it fortuned as he was praying in a certain place: when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him: Master(LORDE) teach us to pray; As John taught his disciples." 
Luke11:1 And it fortuned as he was praying in a certain place: when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him: Master(LORDE) teach us to pray; As John taught his disciples." 
Luke11:2 And he said unto them: When ye pray, say: (O) Our father which art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. Let thy kingdom come. Thy will, be fulfilled, even in earth as it is in heaven." 
Luke11:3 Our daily bread give us this day.(evermore.) 
Luke11:4 And forgive us our sins: For even we forgive every man that trespasseth us,(forgive all them that are debters unto us) and lead us not into temptation; But deliver us from evil Amen." 
Luke11:5 And he said unto them: which of you shall have a friend and shall(if any of you should have a friend, and should) go to him at midnight, and say unto him: friend lend me four(three) loaves" 
Luke11:6 for a friend of mine is come out of the way to me, and I have nothing to set before him:" 
Luke11:7 And he within should answer and say: Trouble me not, now is the door shut, and my servants(children) are with me in the chamber, I cannot rise and give them to thee." 
Luke11:8 I say unto you: though he would not arise and give him, because he is his friend: Yet because of his importunity(unshamefast begging) he would rise and give him as many as he needeth.(needed.)" 
Luke11:9 And I say unto you: ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you." 
Luke11:10 For every one that asketh, receiveth: and he that seeketh, findeth: and to him that knocketh shall it be opened." 
Luke11:11 If the son shall ask bread of any of you which(that) is his(a) father: will he proffer(give) him a stone? Or if he ask fish, will he (for a fish) give him a serpent?" 
Luke11:12 Or if he ask an egg: will he proffer(offer) him a scorpion? 
Luke11:13 If ye then which are evil, know how to(can) give good gifts unto your children? How much more shall your(the) father celestial,(of heaven) give a good(an holy) spirit to them, that desire it of him." 
Luke11:14 And he was a casting out a devil, which was dumb. And it followed when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake, and the people wondered." 
Luke11:15 (But) Some of them said: he casteth out devils by the power of Belzebub, the chief of the devils." 
Luke11:16 And other tempted him seeking of him a sign(token) from heaven. 
Luke11:17 (But) He knew their thoughts, and said unto them: Every kingdom, at debate(devided) within itself shall be desolate: and one house shall fall upon another." 
Luke11:18 So if Satan be at variance(divided) within himself: how shall his kingdom endure? Be cause ye say that I cast out devils by the power of Belzebub? 
Luke11:19 If I by the power of Belzebub cast out devils: by whose power,(whom) do your children cast them out? Therefore shall they be your judges." 
Luke11:20 But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt, the kingdom of God is come upon you." 
Luke11:21 When a strong man armed watcheth his house: That he possesseth, is in peace." 
Luke11:22 But when a stronger than he cometh upon him, and overcometh him: he taketh from him, his harness,(weapons) wherein he trusted, and divideth his goods.(the spoil)" 
Luke11:23 He that is not with me is against me. And he that gathereth not with me scattereth. 
Luke11:24 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through waterless(dry) places seeking rest. And when he findeth none, he sayeth: I will return again unto my house whence I came out." 
Luke11:25 And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished." 
Luke11:26 Then goeth he and taketh seven other spirits with(to) him worse than himself, and they enter in, and dwell there. And the end of that man, is worse than the beginning." 
Luke11:27 (And) It fortuned as he thus spake, (those things) a certain woman of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him: Happy(Blessed) is the womb that bare thee and the paps, which gave thee suck." 
Luke11:28 But he said: (Yea,) Happy(Blessed) are they that hear the word of God, and keep it." 
Luke11:29 When the people were gathered thick together:(togeder) He began to say: This is an evil nation. They seek a sign, and there shall no sign be given them, but the sign of Jonas the prophet." 
Luke11:30 For as Jonas was a sign to the Ninivites, so shall the son of man be to this nation." 
Luke11:31 The queen of the south shall rise at the judgement, with the men of this generation, and condemn them. For she came from the end of the world, to hear the wisdom of Solomon: and behold a greater than Solomon is here." 
Luke11:32 The men of Nineveh shall rise at the judgement, with this generation, and shall condemn them: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas: And behold, a greater than Jonas is here." 
Luke11:33 No man lighteth a candle, and putteth it in a privy place, neither under a bushel: But on a candlestick, that they that come in, may see the light." 
Luke11:34 The light of thy body is the eye. Therefore, when thine eye is single: then is all thy body full of light. But if thine eye be evil: then shall all thy body also be full of darkness." 
Luke11:35 Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee, be not darkness." 
Luke11:36 For if all thy body shall be light, having no part dark: then shall all be full of light, even as when a candle doeth light thee with his brightness." 
Luke11:37 And as he spake, a certain pharisee besought him to dine with him: and Jesus (he) went in, and sat down to meat.(at the table)" 
Luke11:38 When the pharisee saw that he marveled that he had not first washed before dinner. 
Luke11:39 And the Lord said to him: Now do ye; O pharisees, make clean the outside of the cup, and of the platter: but your inward parts are full of ravening(robbery) and wickedness." 
Luke11:40 Ye fools did not he that made that which is without: make that which is within also?(is a thing made clean within, because the outside is cleansed?)" 
Luke11:41 Nevertheless ye give (almose) of that ye have, and behold all is clean to you." 
Luke11:42 But woe be to you pharisees, for ye tithe the mint, and rue, and all manner herbs, and pass over judgement, and the love of God. These ought ye to have done, and (yet) not to have left the other undone." 
Luke11:43 Woe be to you pharisees: for ye love the uppermost seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets." 
Luke11:44 Woe be to you scribes and pharisees hypocrites, for ye are as graves which appear not;(like covered sepulcres) And (the) men that walk over them, are not ware of them." 
Luke11:45 Then answered one of the lawyers,(scribes) and said unto him: Master, thus saying,(with these words) thou puttest us to rebuke also." 
Luke11:46 Then he said: Woe be to you also ye lawyers:(scribes) for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be born,(untollerable burthens) and ye yourselves touch not the packs with one of your fingers." 
Luke11:47 Woe be to you that build the sepulchers of the prophets: for your fathers killed them: 
Luke11:48 Truly(Doubtless) ye bear witness, that ye allow(consent unto) the deeds of your fathers: for they killed(slew) them, and ye build their sepulchers." 
Luke11:49 Therefore said the wisdom of God: I will send them prophets and apostles, and of them they shall slay(put to death) and persecute:" 
Luke11:50 That the blood of all prophets, which was shed from the beginning(since the foundation) of the world, may be required of this generation," 
Luke11:51 from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacary, which perished between the altar and the temple. Verily(Yea) I say unto you: it shall be required of this nation." 
Luke11:52 Woe be to you lawyers:(scribes) for ye have taken away the key of knowledge, ye entered not in yourselves, and them that came in ye forbade." 
Luke11:53 When he thus spake unto them, the lawyers,(scribes) and the pharisees, began to wax busy about(press sore upon) him and to stop his mouth with many questions;" 
Luke11:54 Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch(hunt out) something of his mouth,(mought) whereby they might accuse him." 
Luke12:1 As there gathered together(togedther) an innumerable multitude of people (insomuch that they trod one another) he began to say unto his disciples: First of all beware of the leaven of the pharisees, which is hypocrisy." 
Luke12:2 For there is nothing covered,(hid) that shall not be uncovered:(discovered) neither hid,(secret) that shall not be known." 
Luke12:3 Wherefore(For) whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness: that same shall be heard in light. And that which ye have spoken in the ear, even in secret places,(the chambers) shall be preached even on the top of the houses." 
Luke12:4 I say unto you my friends: fear ye not(Be not afraid of) them that kill the body, and after that have nothing(no more) that he(they) can more do." 
Luke12:5 (But) I will shew you, whom ye shall fear. Fear him which after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea I say unto you, him fear." 
Luke12:6 Are not five sparrows bought for two farthings? and none(yet not one) of them is forgotten of God. 
Luke12:7 Yea(Also even) the very hairs of your heads are numbered. Fear not therefore: Ye are more of value, than many sparrows." 
Luke12:8 I say unto you: Whosoever confesseth(knowledgeth) me before men, even him shall the son of man confess(knowledge) also before the angels of God." 
Luke12:9 And he that denieth me before men: shall be denied before the angels of God. 
Luke12:10 And whosoever speaketh a word against the son of man it shall be forgiven him. But unto him that blasphemeth the holy ghost, it shall not be forgiven." 
Luke12:11 When they bring you unto their(the) synagogues, and unto their(the) rulers, and officers, take no thought how or what thing ye shall answer, or what ye shall speak." 
Luke12:12 For the holy ghost shall teach you in the same hour, what ye ought to say." 
Luke12:13 One of the company(people) said unto him: Master, bid my brother divide the inheritance with me." 
Luke12:14 And he said unto him: Man, who made me a judge, or a divider(heritage parter) over you?" 
Luke12:15 Wherefore he said unto them: take heed, and beware of covetousness. For no man's life standeth in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.(goods)" 
Luke12:16 And he put forth a similitude unto them saying: The lands(ground) of a certain (rich) man brought forth fruits plenteously," 
Luke12:17 and he thought in himself saying: what shall I do? because I have no room where to bestow(gather) my fruits? 
Luke12:18 And he said: This will I do. I will destroy(break down) my barns, and build greater, and therein will I gather all my fruits,(mine increase) and my goods:" 
Luke12:19 and I will say to my soul: Soul thou hast much goods laid up in store for many years, take thine ease: eat, drink and be merry." 
Luke12:20 But God said unto him: Thou fool, this night will they fetch away(require) thy soul again from thee. Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided?(prepared)" 
Luke12:21 So is it with him that gathered riches,(treasure for himself) and is not rich in God." 
Luke12:22 And he spake unto his disciples: Therefore I say unto you: Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat: Neither for your body, what ye shall put on." 
Luke12:23 The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment." 
Luke12:24 Mark well(Consider) the ravens, for they neither(nether) sow, nor reap, which neither have storehouse nor(ner) barn, and yet God feedeth them. How much are ye better then the fowls." 
Luke12:24 Mark well(Consider) the ravens, for they neither(nether) sow, nor reap, which neither have storehouse nor(ner) barn, and yet God feedeth them. How much are ye better then the fowls." 
Luke12:25 Which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit? 
Luke12:26 If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least: why take ye thought for the remnant? 
Luke12:27 Consider the lilies how they grow: They labor not: They spin not: and (yet) I say unto you, (that) Solomon in all his(this) royalty was not clothed like unto(to) one of these." 
Luke12:28 If God then so clothe the grass which is to day in the fields, and tomorrow shall be cast into the furnace:(,God so clothe) how much more will he clothe you, o ye endued with(of) little faith?" 
Luke12:29 And ask not what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither climb ye up on high:" 
Luke12:30 for all such things the heathen people of the world seek for. Your father knoweth that ye have need of such things. 
Luke12:31 Wherefore seek ye after the kingdom of heaven,(God) and all these things shall be ministered unto you." 
Luke12:32 Fear not little flock, for it is your father's pleasure, to give you a kingdom." 
Luke12:33 Sell that ye have, and give alms. And make you bags, which wax not old, and treasure that faileth not in heaven, where no thief cometh, neither moth corrupteth." 
Luke12:34 For where your treasure is; There will your hearts be also. 
Luke12:35 Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning," 
Luke12:36 and ye yourselves, like unto men, that watch(wait) for their master when he will return from a wedding: that as soon as he cometh and knocketh, they may (straightway) open unto him." 
Luke12:37 Happy(Blessed) are those servants, which their Lord, when he cometh, shall find walking; Verily I say unto you, he will gird himself about, and make them sit down to meat,(at the table) and walk(shall go) by them, and minister unto them." 
Luke12:38 And if he come in the second watch, ye if he come in the third watch, and shall find them so, happy(blessed) are those servants." 
Luke12:39 This shall ye understand, that if the good man of the house, had known(knew) what hour the thief would have come, he would surely have watched: and not have suffered(suffer) his house to have been(be) broken up." 
Luke12:40 Be ye prepared therefore for the son of man will come at an hour when ye think, not." 
Luke12:41 Then Peter said unto him: Master tellest thou this similitude unto us, or to all men?" 
Luke12:42 And the Lord said: who is a(If there be any) faithful steward,(servant) and a discreet,(wise) whom his lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their duty of meat, at due season." 
Luke12:43 Happy(Blessed) is that servant, whom his master when he cometh shall find so doing." 
Luke12:44 Of a truth(Verily) I say unto you: that he will make him ruler over all that he hath. 
Luke12:45 But and if the evil servant shall say in his heart: My master will defer his coming, and shall begin to smite the servants, and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken:" 
Luke12:46 the lord of that servant will come in a day, when he thinketh not, and at an hour when he is not ware, and will divide him,(when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of, and shall hew him in pieces) and will give him his reward, with the unbelievers." 
Luke12:47 The servant that knew his master's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes." 
Luke12:48 But he that knew not, and hath committed(yet did commit) things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whom much is given: of him shall be much required. And to whom men much commit, the more of him will they ask." 
Luke12:49 I am come to send fire on earth: and what is my desire but that it were al ready kindled? 
Luke12:50 Notwithstanding I must be baptised with a baptism. And how am I pained till it be ended? 
Luke12:51 Suppose(Think) ye that I am come to send(bring) peace on earth? I tell you, nay: but rather debate." 
Luke12:52 For henceforth there shall be five in one house divided,(at variance) three against two, and two against three." 
Luke12:53 The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father. The mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother. The mother-in-law against the(her) daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against the(her) mother-in-law." 
Luke12:54 Then said he to the people: when ye see a cloud rise out of the west straightway ye say: we shall have(there cometh) a shower, and so it is." 
Luke12:55 And when ye se the south wind blow, ye say: we shall have heat, and it cometh to pass." 
Luke12:56 Hypocrites, ye can skill of(discern) the fashion of the earth, and of the sky: but what is the cause, that ye cannot skill of this time?(Why can ye not discern this time also?)" 
Luke12:57 Yea and why judge ye not of yourselves, that which is rightwise?(what is right?)" 
Luke12:58 While thou goest with thine adversary to the ruler:(prince) as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from(quite of) him, least he bring thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the jailer, and the jailer cast thee into prison." 
Luke12:59 I tell thee thou departest not(shalt not come out) thence, till thou have made good(pay) the utmost farthing.(mite.)" 
Luke13:1 There were present at the same season, that shewed him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate mingled with their own sacrifice." 
Luke13:2 And Jesus answered, and said unto them: Suppose ye that these Galileans, were greater sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered such punishment?" 
Luke13:3 I tell you nay: but except ye repent,(amend your selves) ye shall all (in) likewise perish." 
Luke13:4 Or think ye that those eighteen upon whom(which) the tower in Siloe fell and slew them,(think ye that they) were sinners above all men that dwell in Jerusalem?" 
Luke13:5 I tell you nay: But except ye repent,(amend your selves) ye all shall likewise perish." 
Luke13:6 He put forth this similitude; A certain man had a fig tree (planted) in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none." 
Luke13:7 Then said he to the dresser of his vineyard: Behold this three year(three year long) have I come and sought fruit in this fig tree, and find none, cut it down: why cumbereth(hindereth) it the ground?" 
Luke13:8 And he answered and said unto him: Lord let it alone this year also, till I dig round about it, and dung it," 
Luke13:9 to see whether it will bear(bring forth) fruit: (and) if (it bear) not, then after that, cut it down." 
Luke13:10 (And) He taught in one of their synagogues on the Sabbath days. 
Luke13:11 And behold there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years: and was bowed together,(to gether)(crooked) and could not well lift up herself.(and could not lift up her self at all)" 
Luke13:12 When Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said to her: woman, thou art(be) delivered from thy disease." 
Luke13:13 And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and glorified(praised) God." 
Luke13:14 (And) The ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation (because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day) And said unto the people: There are six days in the week, in which men ought to work, in them come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day." 
Luke13:15 Then answered him the Lord and said: Hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath day, loose his ox, or his ass, from the stall, and lead him to the water?" 
Luke13:16 And ought not this daughter of Abraham, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day, whom Sathan hath bound lo, eighteen years?" 
Luke13:17 And when he thus said, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people rejoiced on all the excellent deeds, that were done by him." 
Luke13:18 Then said he: What is the kingdom of God like? or whereto shall I compare it? 
Luke13:19 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his garden: and it grew, and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the air built(made nests) in(dwelt among) the branches of it." 
Luke13:20 And again he said: whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God? 
Luke13:21 It is like leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three bushels(mixed it among three pecks) of flour, till all was thorow leavened." 
Luke13:22 And he went thorow (all manner of) cities and towns teaching, and took his journey(journeying) towards Jerusalem." 
Luke13:23 Then said one unto him: Lord, are there few that shall be saved? And he said unto them:" 
Luke13:24 strive with your selves to enter in at the strait gate: For many I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able." 
Luke13:25 When the goodman of the house is risen up, and hath shut fast(to) the door, and ye (shall) begin to stand without, and to knock at the door saying: Lord, Lord, open unto us: and he shall answer and say unto you: I know (you) not whence ye are." 
Luke13:26 Then shall ye begin to say: We have eaten, and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets." 
Luke13:27 And he shall say: I tell you, I know you not whence ye are: depart from me all ye workers of iniquity." 
Luke13:28 There shall be weeping, and gnashing of teeth: when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and yourselves thrust out a doors." 
Luke13:29 And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall rest(sit down) in the kingdom of God." 
Luke13:30 And behold, there are last, which shall be first: And there are first which shall be last." 
Luke13:31 The same day there came certain of the pharisees, and said unto him: Get thee out of the way, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee." 
Luke13:32 And he said unto them: Go ye and tell that fox, behold I cast out devils, and heal the people to day and tomorrow, and the third day I make an end." 
Luke13:33 Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow, and the day following: For it cannot be, that a prophet perish any other where, save at Jerusalem." 
Luke13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest prophets, and stonest them that are sent to thee: how often would I have gathered thy children together, as the hen (gathereth) her nest under her wings, but thou wouldest(ye would) not." 
Luke13:35 Behold your habitation shall be left unto you desolate. For I tell you, ye shall not see me until the time come that ye shall say, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." 
Luke14:1 And it chanced that he went into the house of one of the chief pharisees to eat bread, on a Sabbath day: and they watched him." 
Luke14:2 And behold there was a man before him, which had the dropsy." 
Luke14:3 And Jesus answered and spake unto the lawyers(scribes) and pharisees, saying: is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day?" 
Luke14:4 And they held their peace. (And) He took the man(him) and healed him, and let him go:" 
Luke14:5 And answered them saying: which of you shall have an ass, or an ox, fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day?" 
Luke14:6 And they could not answer him again to that. 
Luke14:7 He put forth(told) a similitude to the guests, when he marked how they pressed to the highest rooms,(chose the hyest seats) and said unto them:" 
Luke14:8 When thou art bidden to a wedding of any man, sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him," 
Luke14:9 and he that bade both him and thee, come and say to thee: give this man room. And thou then begin with shame to take the lowest room." 
Luke14:10 But rather when thou art bidden, go and sit in the lowest room, that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee: friend sit up higher. Then shalt thou have praise(worship) in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee.(at the table)" 
Luke14:11 For whosoever exalteth himself, shall be brought low. And he that humbleth himself, shall be exalted." 
Luke14:12 Then said he also to him that had desired to him to dinner: When thou makest a dinner, or a supper: call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor yet rich neighbours: lest they bid thee again, and make thee recompense.(and a recompense be made thee.)" 
Luke14:13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed,(cripple) the lame, and the blind," 
Luke14:14 and thou shalt be happy:(blessed) For they cannot recompense thee. But thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just men.(righteous) 
Luke14:15 When one of them that sat at meat also heard that, he said unto him: happy(Blessed) is he that eateth bread in the kingdom of God." 
Luke14:16 Then said he to him: A certain man ordained(made) a great supper, and bade many,(called many thereto)" 
Luke14:17 and sent his servant at supper time, to say to them that were bidden, come: for all things are now ready." 
Luke14:18 And they all at once began to make excuse. The first said unto him: I have bought a farm, and I must needs go and see it, I pray thee have me excused." 
Luke14:19 And another said: I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I must go to prove them, I pray thee have me excused." 
Luke14:20 The third said: I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come." 
Luke14:21 And the servant went again, and brought his master word thereof. Then was the good man of the house displeased, and said to his servant: Go out quickly into the streets and quarters of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed,(cripple) and the halt,(lame) and the blind." 
Luke14:22 And the servant said: lord it is done as thou commandedst, and yet there is room." 
Luke14:23 And the lord said to the servant: Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled." 
Luke14:24 For I say unto you, that none of those men which were bidden, shall taste of my supper." 
Luke14:25 There went a great company(much people) with him, and he turned and said unto them:" 
Luke14:26 If a man come to me, and hate not his father and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, moreover and his own life, he cannot be my disciple." 
Luke14:27 And whosoever bear not his cross, and come after(followeth) me cannot be my disciple." 
Luke14:28 Which of you is he that is disposed to build a tower, and sitteth not down before(first) and counteth the cost: Whether he have sufficient to perform it?" 
Luke14:29 lest after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to perform it, all that behold it, begin to mock him(laugh him to scorn)" 
Luke14:30 saying: This man began to build, and was not able to make an end.(perform it)" 
Luke14:31 (Or) What king goeth to make battle against another king, and sitteth not down first, and casteth in his mind, whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand," 
Luke14:32 or else while the other is yet a great way off, he will send ambassadors, and desire peace." 
Luke14:33 So likewise, none of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, can be my disciple." 
Luke14:34 Salt is good, but if salt be corrupt,(have lost her saltiness)(unsavory) what shall be seasoned therewith?(withall)" 
Luke14:35 It is neither good for the land, nor yet for the dunghill, (but) men cast it out at the doors.(but shall be cast away) He that hath ears to hear, let him hear." 
Luke15:1 Then resorted unto him all the publicans and sinners, for to hear him." 
Luke15:2 And the pharisees, and scribes grudged(murmured) saying: He received to his company sinners, and eateth with them." 
Luke15:3 Then put he forth this similitude to them saying: 
Luke15:4 What man of you having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them doth not leave ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after him(that) which is lost, until he find him?" 
Luke15:5 And when he hath found him, he putteth him on his shoulders with joy:" 
Luke15:6 And as soon as he cometh home he calleth together his lovers,(friends) and neighbours saying unto them: rejoice with me for I have found my sheep which was lost." 
Luke15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons,(righteous) which need no repentance." 
Luke15:8 Other(Either) what woman having ten groats, if she lose one, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently, till she find it?" 
Luke15:9 And when she hath found it she calleth her lovers,(friends) and her neighbours saying: Rejoice with me, for I have found the groat which I had lost." 
Luke15:10 Likewise I say unto you, joy shall be(is made) in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth." 
Luke15:11 And he said: a certain man had two sons," 
Luke15:12 and the younger of them said to his father: father give me my part(portion) of the goods that to me belongeth. And he divided unto them his substance. 
Luke15:13 And not long after, the younger son gathered all that he had together, and took his journey into a far country, and there he wasted his goods with riotous living." 
Luke15:14 And when he had spent all that he had, there rose a great dearth thorowout all that same land. And he began to lack." 
Luke15:15 And he went, and clave to a citizen of that same country, which sent him to his field, to keep his swine." 
Luke15:16 And he would fain have filled his belly with the cods, that the swine ate: and no man gave him." 
Luke15:17 Then he came to himself and said: how many hired servants at my father's have bread enough, and I die for(perish of) hunger." 
Luke15:18 I will arise, and go to my father, and will say unto him: father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee," 
Luke15:19 now(and) am I not(no more) worthy to be called thy son, make me as one of thy hired servants." 
Luke15:20 And he arose, and came(went) to his father. (And) When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran unto him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." 
Luke15:21 And the son said unto him: father I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, neither am I(and am no more) worthy henceforth to be called thy son." 
Luke15:22 Then said the father(But his father said) to his servants: bring forth that best garment, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet." 
Luke15:23 And bring hither that fatted calf, and kill him, and let us eat and be merry:" 
Luke15:24 for this my son was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is now found. And they began to make good chear.(be merry.)" 
Luke15:25 The elder brother(son) was in the field, and when he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard minstrelsy, and dancing," 
Luke15:26 and called one of his servants, and asked what those things meant." 
Luke15:27 (And) He said unto him: thy brother is come, and thy father had killed the fatted(hath slain a fed) calf, because he hath received him safe and sound." 
Luke15:28 And he was angry, and would not go in. Then came his father out, and entreated(prayed) him," 
Luke15:29 he answered and said to his father: Lo these many years have I done thee service, neither brake at any time thy commandment, and yet gavest thou me never so much as a kid to make merry with my lovers:(friends)" 
Luke15:30 but as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy goods with harlots, thou hast for his pleasure killed the fatted calf.(hast slain a fed calf)" 
Luke15:31 And he said unto him: Son, thou wast ever(alway) with me, and all that I have is thine:" 
Luke15:32 it was meet that we should make merry and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again: and was lost, and is found." 
Luke16:1 (And) He said also unto his disciples. There was a certain rich man, which had a steward, that was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods." 
Luke16:2 And he called him, and said unto him: How is it, that I hear this of thee? Give accounts(acomptes) of thy stewardship. For thou mayest be no longer my steward." 
Luke16:3 The steward said within himself: what shall I do? for my master will take away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig, and to beg, I am ashamed." 
Luke16:4 I wot what to do, that when I am put out of my(the) stewardship, they may receive me into their houses." 
Luke16:5 Then called he all his master's debtors, and said unto the first: how much owest thou unto my master?" 
Luke16:6 And he said: an hundred tuns of oil, and he said to him: take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty." 
Luke16:7 Then said he to another: what owest thou? And he said: an hundred quarters of wheat. He said to him: Take thy bill, and write fourscore." 
Luke16:8 And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely. For the children of this world, are in their kind, wiser than the children of light." 
Luke16:9 And I say also unto you: make you friends of the wicked mammon, that when ye shall have need(depart) they may receive you into everlasting habitations.(tabernacles)" 
Luke16:10 He that is faithful in that which is least: the same is faithful in much. (And he that is unfaithful in the least: is unfaithful also in much.) 
Luke16:11 So then if ye have not been faithful in the wicked mammon? who will believe you in that which is true? 
Luke16:12 and if ye have not been faithful in another man's business: who shall give you your own? 
Luke16:13 No servant can serve two masters, for either he shall hate the one and love the other, or else he shall lean to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God, and mammon." 
Luke16:14 All these things heard the pharisees also which were covetous. And they mocked him," 
Luke16:15 and he said unto them: Ye are they, which justify yourselves before men: but God knoweth your hearts. For that which men magnify,(is highly esteemed among men) is abominable(an abomination) in the sight of God." 
Luke16:16 The law, and the prophets reigned until the time of John: (and) Since that time, the kingdom of God is preached, and every man striveth to go in." 
Luke16:16 The law, and the prophets reigned until the time of John: (and) Since that time, the kingdom of God is preached, and every man striveth to go in." 
Luke16:17 Sooner shall heaven and earth perish, than one tittle of the law shall perish." 
Luke16:18 Whosoever forsaketh(putteth away) his wife, and marrieth another, breaketh matrimony. And every man which marrieth her that is divorced from her husband committeth advoutry(breaketh wedlock) also." 
Luke16:19 There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple, and fine rayons,(byss)(costly linnen) and fared deliciously every day." 
Luke16:20 And there was a certain beggar, named Lazarus, which lay at his gate full of sores" 
Luke16:21 desiring to be refreshed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's board. (and no man gave unto him) Nevertheless, the dogs came, and licked his sores." 
Luke16:22 And it fortuned that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: The rich man also died, and was buried in hell." 
Luke16:23 When he lift up his eyes, as he was in torments, he saw Abraham(And being in hell in torments, he lift up his eyes and saw Abraham) afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom;" 
Luke16:24 And (he) cried and said: father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame." 
Luke16:25 (But) Abraham said unto him: Son remember, that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy pleasure, and contrariwise Lazarus pain. Now therefore is he comforted, and thou art punished.(tormented)" 
Luke16:26 Beyond all this between you and us there is a great space set, so that they which would go from hence to you, cannot: neither from thence come hither.(neither may come from thence to us.)" 
Luke16:27 And(Then) he said: I pray thee therefore father, send him to my father's house." 
Luke16:28 For I have five brethren: for to warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment." 
Luke16:29 Abraham said unto him: they have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them." 
Luke16:30 And he said: nay father Abraham, but if one from the dead came unto them(but if one came unto them from the dead) they would repent." 
Luke16:31 He said unto him: If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe, though one rose from death again." 
Luke17:1 Then said he to his(the) disciples, it cannot be avoided, but that occasions of evil(offenses will) come. Nevertheless woe be to him thorow whom they come." 
Luke17:2 It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were cast into the sea, rather than (that) he should offend one of these little ones." 
Luke17:3 Take heed to your selves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him: and if he repent,(amend) forgive him." 
Luke17:4 And though he sin against thee seven times in one(a) day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee saying: it repenteth me, forgive him." 
Luke17:5 And the apostles said unto the Lord: increase our faith. 
Luke17:6 (And) The Lord said: if ye had faith like a grain of mustard seed, and should say unto this sycamine(mulberry) tree, pluck thyself up by the roots, and plant thyself in the sea: he should obey you." 
Luke17:7 Which(Who is it) of you having(if he had) a servant a plowing, or feeding cattle, (that) would say unto him when he were come from the field: Go quickly and sit down to meat." 
Luke17:8 And rather sayeth not(would not rather say) to him, dress wherewith I may sup, and appoint(gird up) thyself and serve me, till I have eaten and drunk: and afterward, eat thou, and drink thou?" 
Luke17:9 Doeth he thank that servant because he did that which was commanded unto him? I trow not. 
Luke17:10 So likewise ye, when ye have done all those things which are commanded unto you: say, we are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do." 
Luke17:11 And it chanced as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed thorow Samaria and Galilee." 
Luke17:12 And as he entered into a certain town, there met him ten men, that were lepers, which stood afar off," 
Luke17:13 and put forth their voices, and said: Jesu master, have mercy on us." 
Luke17:14 When he saw them, he said unto them: Go and shew yourselves to the priests. And it chanced as they went, they were cleansed." 
Luke17:15 And one of them, when he saw that he was cleansed, turned back again, and with a loud voice praised God," 
Luke17:16 and fell down on his face at his feet, and gave him thanks. And the same was a Samaritan." 
Luke17:17 (And) Jesus answered and said: Are there not ten cleansed? But where are those nine? 
Luke17:18 There are not found that returned again, to give God praise, save only this stranger." 
Luke17:19 And he said unto him: Arise, and go thy way, thy faith hath saved thee.(made thee whole.)" 
Luke17:20 When he was demanded of the pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come: he answered them and said: The kingdom of God cometh not with waiting for.(outward appearance)" 
Luke17:21 Neither shall men say: Lo here, lo there. For behold, the kingdom of God is within(inward in) you." 
Luke17:22 And he said unto the disciples: The days will(time shall) come, when ye shall desire to see one day of the son of man, and ye shall not see it." 
Luke17:23 And they shall say to you: See here; See there. Go not after them, nor follow them," 
Luke17:24 for as the lightning that appeareth out of the one part of the heaven, and shineth unto the other part of heaven.(lightening shineth above from the heaven, and lighteth over all that is under the heaven,) So shall the son of man be in his days." 
Luke17:25 But first must he suffer many things, and be reproved(refused) of this nation." 
Luke17:26 As it happened(came to pass) in the time of Noe So shall it be in the time of the son of man. 
Luke17:27 They ate, they drank, they married wives and were married even unto the same day that Noe went into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all." 
Luke17:28 Likewise also, as it chanced(came to pass) in the days of Lot. They ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built." 
Luke17:29 And even the same day that Lot went out of Zodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all." 
Luke17:30 After these ensamples, shall the day be,(it be in the day)(After this manner also shall it go) when the son of man shall appear." 
Luke17:31 At that day he that is on the house top,(roof) and his stuff in the house: let him not come down to take it out. And likewise let not him that is in the fields, turn back again to that he left behind." 
Luke17:32 Remember Lot's wife. 
Luke17:33 Whosoever will go about to save his life, shall lose it: And whosoever shall lose his life, shall quicken(save) it." 
Luke17:34 I tell you: In that night, there shall be two in one bed, the(that) one shall be received, and the other shall be forsaken." 
Luke17:35 Two shall be also a grinding together: the one shall be received, and the other forsaken." 
Luke17:36 Two in the field, the one shall be received, and the other forsaken." 
Luke17:37 And they answered, and said to him: where Lord? And he said unto them: wheresoever The body shall be, thither will the eagles resort.(Where so ever the dead carcase is there will the Aegles be gathered together)" 
Luke18:1 He put forth a similitude unto them, signifying that men ought always to pray, and not to be weary," 
Luke18:2 saying: There was a Judge in a certain city, which feared not God neither regarded man.(and stood in awe of no man)" 
Luke18:3 And there was a certain widow in the same city, which came unto him saying: Avenge me of(Deliver me from) mine adversary." 
Luke18:4 And a great while he would not.(And he would not for a while.) (But) Afterward he said unto himself: Though I fear not God, nor care for man," 
Luke18:5 yet because this widow troubleth(is so importune upon) me, I will avenge(deliver) her, lest at the last she come, and rail(hag) on me." 
Luke18:6 And the Lord said: hear what the unrighteous judge sayeth. 
Luke18:7 And shall not God avenge his elect,(also deliver his chosen) which cry night and day unto him? Yea though he defer them:" 
Luke18:8 I tell you, he will avenge(shall deliver) them, and that quickly. Nevertheless, when the son of man cometh, suppose ye, that he shall find faith on (the) earth." 
Luke18:9 And he put forth this similitude, unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were perfect, and despised other." 
Luke18:10 Two men went up into the temple to pray: the one a pharisee, and the other a publican." 
Luke18:11 The pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God I thank thee that I am not as other (men) are, extortioners,(robbers) unjust, advoutrers, and even as the publican is.(or as this publican.)" 
Luke18:12 I fast twice in the week.(Sabbath) I give tithe of all that I possess.(have) 
Luke18:13 And the publican stood afar off, and would not lift up his eyes to heaven, but smote his breast, saying: God be mercyfull to me a sinner." 
Luke18:14 I tell you: this man departed home to his house justified more than the other. For every man that exalteth himself, shall be brought low: And he that humbleth himself, shall be exalted." 
Luke18:15 They brought unto him also babes,(young children) that he should touch them. When his(the) disciples saw that, they rebuked them." 
Luke18:16 But Jesus called them unto him, and said: Suffer children to come unto me, and forbid them not. For unto(of) such, belongeth the kingdom of God." 
Luke18:17 Verily I say unto you: whosoever receiveth not the kingdom of God, as a child: he shall not enter therein." 
Luke18:18 And a certain ruler asked him: saying: Good Master: what ought I to do, to obtain eternal life?(inherit everlasting life?)" 
Luke18:19 Jesus said unto him: Why callest thou me good? No man(None) is good, save(but) God only." 
Luke18:20 Thou knowest the commandments: Thou shalt not commit advoutry,(not break wedlock) thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness; Honour thy father, and thy mother." 
Luke18:21 And he said: All (of) these have I kept from my youth. 
Luke18:22 When Jesus heard that, he said unto him: Yet lackest thou one thing. Sell all that thou hast, and distribute(give) it unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come, and follow me." 
Luke18:23 When he heard that, he was heavy, for he was (very) rich." 
Luke18:24 When Jesus saw him mourn, he said: with what difficulty shall they that have riches, enter into the kingdom of God:" 
Luke18:25 Easier it is for a camel to pass(go) thorow a needles eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God." 
Luke18:26 Then said they that heard that: And who shall then be saved? 
Luke18:27 (And) He said: Things which are unpossible with men: are possible with God. 
Luke18:28 Then Peter said: Lo we have forsaken(left) all, and have followed thee." 
Luke18:29 (And) He said unto them: Verily I say unto you, there is no man that forsaketh(leaveth) house, other father and mother,(elders) other brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's(Goddes) sake," 
Luke18:30 which same shall not receive much more in this world:(time) and in the world to come, life everlasting." 
Luke18:31 He took unto him twelve, and said unto them: Lo(Behold) we go up to Jerusalem, and all shall be fulfilled that are written by the prophets of the son of man." 
Luke18:32 He shall be delivered unto the gentiles, and shall be mocked, and shall be despitefully entreated, and shall be spitted on:" 
Luke18:33 and when they have scourged him, they will put him to death, and the third day, shall he arise again." 
Luke18:34 (But) They understood none of these things. And this saying was hid from them. And they perceived not the things which were spoken. 
Luke18:35 (And) It came to pass, as they were(he was) come nigh unto Jericho,(Hericho) a certain blind man sat by the way side begging." 
Luke18:36 And when he heard the people pass by, he asked what it meant." 
Luke18:37 (And) They said unto him that Jesus of Nazareth, went(passed) by." 
Luke18:38 And he cried, saying: Jesus the son of David, have (thou) mercy on me." 
Luke18:39 And they which went before rebuked him, because(that) he should hold his peace. And(But) he much the more (so) cried; The(Thou) son of David, have mercy on me." 
Luke18:40 (And) Jesus stood still, and commanded him, to be brought unto him. And when he was come near, he asked him" 
Luke18:41 saying: What wilt thou, that I do unto thee? And he said: Lord, that I may receive my sight." 
Luke18:42 Jesus said unto him: Receive thy sight: Thy faith hath saved thee. 
Luke18:43 And immediately he saw, and followed him, praising God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave laud to God." 
Luke19:1 And he entered in, and went thorow Jericho.(Hericho)" 
Luke19:2 And behold, there was a man named Zacheus, which was a ruler among the publicans, and (was) rich also." 
Luke19:3 And he made means(and desired) to see Jesus, what he should be: and he could not for the press, because he was of a low stature." 
Luke19:4 And(Wherefore) he ran before, and ascended(climbed) up, into a sycomore tree,(wild fig tree) to see him. For he would(should) come that same way." 
Luke19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him: Zache, at once come down,(come down at once) for today I must abide at thy house." 
Luke19:6 And hastily he came down, and received him joyfully." 
Luke19:7 And when they saw that, they all grudged(murmured) saying: He is gone, into tarry with a man that is a sinner." 
Luke19:8 (And) Zache stood forth and said unto the Lord: Behold Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have done any man wrong, I will restore him four fold." 
Luke19:9 (And) Jesus said to him: This day is health come unto this house, forasmuch as it(he) also is become the child of Abraham." 
Luke19:10 For the son of man is come to seek, and to save that which was lost." 
Luke19:11 As they heard these things,(hearkened) he added thereto a similitude, because he was nigh to Jerusalem;(Herusalem) And because also, they thought that the kingdom of God should shortly appear." 
Luke19:12 He said therefore: A certain noble man, went into a far country, to receive (him) a kingdom, and then to come again." 
Luke19:13 (And) He called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds saying unto them: Buy and sell(Occupy) till I come:" 
Luke19:14 But his citizens hated him, and sent messengers(a message) after him, saying: We will not have this man to reign over us." 
Luke19:15 And it came to pass, when he was come again and had received his kingdom, he commanded his(these) servants, to be called to him (to whom he gave his money) to wit what every man had done." 
Luke19:16 Then came the first saying: Lord, thy pound hath increased ten pounds." 
Luke19:17 And he said unto him: Well good servant, because thou wast faithful in a very little thing; Take thou authority over ten cities." 
Luke19:18 And the other came saying: Lord thy pound, hath increased five pounds." 
Luke19:19 And to the same he said: And be thou also ruler over five cities. 
Luke19:20 And the third came, and said: Lord, behold here thy pound, which I have kept in a napkin," 
Luke19:21 for I feared thee, because thou art a strait man: thou takest up that thou laidst not down; And reapest that thou didst not sow." 
Luke19:22 And he said unto him: Of thine own mouth judge I thee thou evil servant. Knewest thou that I am a strait man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow?" 
Luke19:23 Wherefore then gavest not thou my money into the bank? And then(that) at my coming should I(might) have required mine own, with vantage." 
Luke19:24 And he said to them that stood by: Take from him that pound, and give it him that hath ten pounds." 
Luke19:25 And they said unto him: Lord he hath ten pounds. 
Luke19:26 I say unto you, that unto all them that have, it shall be given: (and he shall have abundance) and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away.(from him.)" 
Luke19:27 Moreover those mine enemies, which would not, that (I) should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me." 
Luke19:28 And when he had thus spoken, he proceeded forth before them, and went(ascending) up to Jerusalem." 
Luke19:29 And it fortuned, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and Bethany, besides mount Olivete, he sent two of his disciples" 
Luke19:30 saying: Go ye in to the town which is over against you. In the which as soon as ye are come, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon, yet never man sat. Loose him and bring him hither." 
Luke19:31 And if any man ask you, why that ye loose him: thus say unto him; The Lord hath need of him." 
Luke19:32 They that were sent went their way, and found, even as he had said unto them." 
Luke19:33 And as they were a loosing the colt, the owners said unto them: why loose ye the colt?" 
Luke19:34 And they said: for the Lord hath need of him. 
Luke19:35 And they brought him to Jesus. And they cast their raiment on the colt, and set Jesus thereon." 
Luke19:36 And as he went they spread their clothes in the way. 
Luke19:37 (And) When he was (now) come where he should go down from the mount Olivete, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice, and to laud God(began joyfully to praise God) with a loud voice, for all the miracles that they had seen," 
Luke19:38 saying: Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.(praise in the height)" 
Luke19:39 And some of the pharisees of the company,(among the people) said unto him: Master rebuke thy disciples." 
Luke19:40 He answered, and said unto them: I tell you, if these (should) hold their peace, the stones will(would) cry." 
Luke19:41 And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept on it" 
Luke19:42 saying: If thou hadst known those things which belong unto thy peace, even at this day?(thy time?) But now are they hid from thine eyes." 
Luke19:43 For the days shall come upon thee; And(that thy) thine enemies shall compass thee about with a bank. And shall besiege thee round about,(cast a bank about thee, and compass thee round) and keep thee in on every side;" 
Luke19:44 And make thee even with the ground, with thy children which are in thee. And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.(hast not known the time, wherein thou has been visited)" 
Luke19:45 And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought" 
Luke19:46 saying unto them; It is written, my house is the house of prayer: But ye have made it a den of thieves.(murthurers)" 
Luke19:47 And he taught daily in the temple. The high priests and the scribes and the chief of the people, went about to destroy him:" 
Luke19:48 But could not find what to do. For all the people stuck by him. And gave him audience. 
Luke20:1 And it fortuned in one of those days; As he taught the people in the temple; And preached the gospel.(gospell) The high priests and the scribes came unto him with the seniors;(elders) 
Luke20:2 And spake unto him, saying: Tell us by what authority thou doest these things? Other(Either) who is he that gave thee this authority?" 
Luke20:3 He answered and said unto them: I also will ask you a question,(ask you a word also) and answer me:" 
Luke20:4 was the baptism of John,(The baptism of John: was it) from heaven, or of men?" 
Luke20:4 was the baptism of John,(The baptism of John: was it) from heaven, or of men?" 
Luke20:5 (And) They thought within themselves saying: If we shall say from heaven: he will say: Why then believed ye him not? 
Luke20:6 But and if we shall say of men, all the people will stone us. For they surely believe(be persuaded) that John was(is) a prophet." 
Luke20:6 But and if we shall say of men, all the people will stone us. For they surely believe(be persuaded) that John was(is) a prophet." 
Luke20:7 And they answered that they could not tell whence it was. 
Luke20:8 And Jesus said unto them: Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. 
Luke20:9 Then began he to put forth to(tell) the people, this similitude: A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it forth to farmers,(out unto husbandmen) and went himself into a strange country for a great season." 
Luke20:10 And when the time came,(was come) he sent a servant to his tenants(husbandmen) that they should give him of the fruits, of the vineyard. (And) The tenants(husbandmen) (did) beat him: and sent him away empty." 
Luke20:11 And (again) he ceased not thereby but sent yet another servant. And they (did) beat him, and foul(shamefully) entreated him also, and sent him away empty." 
Luke20:12 Moreover, he sent the third Also;(too) And him they wounded, and cast him out." 
Luke20:13 Then said the lord of the vineyard: what shall I do? I will send my dear son, him peradventure they will reverence,(stand in awe of him) when they see him." 
Luke20:14 (But) When the farmers saw him,(husbandmen saw the son) they thought in themselves, saying: this is the heir, come let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours." 
Luke20:15 And they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him. Now what shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?" 
Luke20:16 He will come and destroy those farmers,(husbandmen) and will let out his vineyard to other. When they heard that, they said: God forbid." 
Luke20:17 (And) He beheld them and said: what meaneth this then that is written: The stone that the builders refused, (the same) is made(become) the head cornerstone?" 
Luke20:18 whosoever stumble at that(falleth upon this) stone, shall be bruised:(broken:)(broken in sunder) but on whosoever it fall, (upon) it will also break him.(grind him to powder.)" 
Luke20:19 And the high priests and the scribes, the same hour went about to lay hands on him, but they feared the people. For they perceived that he had spoken this similitude against them." 
Luke20:20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves perfect, to(that they might) take him in his words, and to deliver him unto the power, and authority of the president.(debite.)" 
Luke20:21 And they asked him saying: Master, we know that thou sayest, and teachest right, neither considerest thou any man's degree,(regardest the outward appearance of no man) but teachest the way of God truly." 
Luke20:22 Is it lawful for us to give Cesar(the Emperour) tribute, or no?" 
Luke20:23 He perceived their craftiness, and said unto them: Why tempt ye me?" 
Luke20:24 Shew me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said: Cesar's.(the Emperour's) 
Luke20:25 And he said unto them: Give then unto Cesar,(the Emperour) that which belongeth unto Cesar:(the Eperour) And to God, that which pertaineth to God." 
Luke20:26 And they could not reprove his saying before the people. And(But) they marveled at his answer, and held their peace." 
Luke20:27 Then came to him certain of the sadducees which deny that there is any resurrection. And they asked him 
Luke20:28 saying: Master Moses wrote unto us, if any man's brother die having a wife; And the same die without issue: that then his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother." 
Luke20:29 There were seven brethren, and the first took a wife, and died without children." 
Luke20:30 And the second took the wife, and he died childless." 
Luke20:31 And the third took her, and in like wise the residue of the seven; And left no children behind them, and died." 
Luke20:32 Last of all the woman died also. 
Luke20:33 Now at the resurrection whose wife of them shall she be? for seven had her to wife. 
Luke20:34 Jesus answered and said unto them: The children of this world marry wives, and are married," 
Luke20:35 but they which shall be (made) worthy of(to enjoy) that world, and the resurrection from death, neither marry wives," 
Luke20:36 neither are married, nor yet can die any more. For they are equal unto the angels: and are the sons of God, inasmuch as they are the children of the resurrection." 
Luke20:37 And that the dead shall rise again, even Moses signified besides the bush, when he said:(called) the Lord God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." 
Luke20:38 For he is not the God of the dead, but of them which live.(the living) For all live in him.(live all unto him)" 
Luke20:39 (Then) Certain of the pharisees answered and said: Master, thou hast well said." 
Luke20:40 And after that durst they not ask him any question at all. 
Luke20:41 Then said he unto them: how say they that Christ is David's son? 
Luke20:42 And David him self saith in the book of the Psalms: The Lord said unto my Lord: Sit on my right hand," 
Luke20:43 till I make thine enemies thy foot stool. 
Luke20:44 (Seeing) David then calleth him Lord: How is he also (then) his son? 
Luke20:45 Then in the audience of all the people, he said unto his disciples," 
Luke20:46 beware of the scribes, which desire to go in long clothing: and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and chief rooms at feasts," 
Luke20:47 which devour widows' houses, and pray long under a colour:(that under a colour of long praying:) The same shall receive greater damnation." 
Luke21:1 As he beheld, he saw the rich men, how they cast in their offerings into the treasury." 
Luke21:2 (And) He saw also a certain poor widow, which cast in thither two mites." 
Luke21:3 And he said: of a truth(Verily) I say unto you, this poor widow hath put in more than they all." 
Luke21:4 For they all have of their superfluity added(of their excess put in) unto the offering of God: But she, of her penury,(poverty) hath cast in all the substance(put in all her living) that she had." 
Luke21:5 As some spake of the temple, how it was garnished with goodly stones, and jewels, he said:" 
Luke21:6 The days will(time shall) come, when of these things which ye see, shall not be left stone upon stone that shall not be thrown(broken) down." 
Luke21:7 And they asked him, saying: Master when shall these things be. And what signs will there be, when such things shall come to pass." 
Luke21:8 And he said: take heed, that ye be not deceived. For many will come in my name, saying of themselves, I am he. And the time draweth near.(is come hard by) Follow ye not them therefore." 
Luke21:9 But when ye hear of war, and of dissension:(wars and insurrections) be not afraid, for these things must first come:(such must come to pass) but the end followeth not by and by.(the end is not yet there so soon)" 
Luke21:10 Then said he unto them: Nation(One people) shall rise against nation,(another) and kingdom against kingdom,(one realm against another)" 
Luke21:11 and great earthquakes shall be in all quarters,(here and there) and hunger,(dearth) and pestilence, and fearful things. And great signs shall there be from heaven." 
Luke21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up, to the synagogues, and into prison, and bring you before kings: And rulers for my name's sake." 
Luke21:13 And this shall chance you for a testimonial.(happen unto you for a witness) 
Luke21:14 Let it stick therefore fast in your hearts, not once to study before, what ye shall answer for yourselves:(take no thought, how ye shall answer)" 
Luke21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, where against, all your adversaries shall not be able to speak nor resist." 
Luke21:16 Yea and ye shall be betrayed of your fathers and mothers,(delivered up even of your elders) and of your brethren, and kinsmen, and lovers.(friends) And some of you shall they put to death." 
Luke21:17 And hated shall ye be of all men for my name's sake. 
Luke21:18 Yet there shall not one hair of your heads perish. 
Luke21:19 With your patience, possess your souls.(Hold fast your souls with patience)" 
Luke21:20 And when ye see Jerusalem besieged with an host, then understand, that the desolation of the same is nigh." 
Luke21:21 Then let them which are in Jewry fly to the mountains. And let them which are in the midst of it, depart out. And let not them that are in other countries, enter(come) therein." 
Luke21:22 For these be the days of vengeance, to fulfil all that are written." 
Luke21:23 But woe be to them that be with child, and to them that give suck in those days, for there shall be great trouble in the land:(upon earth) and wrath over all this people." 
Luke21:24 And they shall fall on the edge of the sword. And they shall be led captive into all nations. And Jerusalem shall be trodden underfoot of the gentiles, until the time of the gentiles be fulfilled." 
Luke21:25 And there shall be signs, in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars: and in the earth the people shall be in such perplexity, that they shall not tell which way to turn themselves. The sea and the waves(waters) shall roar," 
Luke21:26 and men's hearts shall fail them(men shall pine away) for fear, and for looking after those things which shall come on the earth. For the powers of heaven shall move." 
Luke21:27 And then shall they see the son of man come in a cloud with power and great glory. 
Luke21:28 When these things begin to come to pass: then look up, and lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh." 
Luke21:29 And he shewed(told) them a similitude: behold the fig tree, and all other trees," 
Luke21:30 when they shoot forth their buds, ye see and know of your own selves(ye see by them, and perceive) that summer is then nigh at hand." 
Luke21:31 So likewise ye (when ye see these things come to pass) understand,(be sure) that the kingdom of God is nigh." 
Luke21:32 Verily I say unto you: this generation shall not pass, till all be fulfilled." 
Luke21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass: but my words shall not pass. 
Luke21:34 Take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be overcome, with surfeiting and drunkenness, and cares of this world: and that, that day come on you unawares.(that your hearts be not overladden with excess of eating and with drunkenness, and with taking of though for living, and so this day come upon you unawares)" 
Luke21:35 For as a snare shall it come on all them that sit on the face of the(dwell upon) earth. 
Luke21:36 Watch therefore continually and pray, that ye may scape(obtain grace to fly) all this that shall come. And that ye may stand before the son of man." 
Luke21:37 In the day time taught he in the temple, and at night, he went out, and had abiding in the mount Olivete." 
Luke21:38 And all the people came in the morning to(gat them up early unto) him in the temple, for to hear him." 
Luke22:1 The feast of sweet bread drew nigh which is called ester," 
Luke22:2 and the high priests, and scribes sought how to kill Jesus,(him) but they feared the people." 
Luke22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas, whose sur name was Iscariot (which was of the number of the twelve)" 
Luke22:4 and he went his way, and communed with the high priests and officers, how he would(might) betray him to them." 
Luke22:5 And they were glad: and promised to give him money. 
Luke22:6 And he consented, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them, when the people were away." 
Luke22:7 Then came the day of sweet bread, when of necessity(wherein) the ester lamb must be offered." 
Luke22:8 And he sent Peter, and John saying: Go and prepare us the ester lamb, that we may eat." 
Luke22:8 And he sent Peter, and John saying: Go and prepare us the ester lamb, that we may eat." 
Luke22:9 They said to him. Where wilt thou, that we prepare?" 
Luke22:10 And he said unto them. Behold as ye enter(when ye be entered) into the city, there shall a man meet you bearing a pitcher of water, him follow into the same house that he entereth in," 
Luke22:11 and ye shall say unto the good man of the house. The master sayeth: (unto thee) Where is the guest chamber,(guesthouse) where I shall eat mine ester lamb with my disciples?" 
Luke22:12 And he shall shew you a great parlour paved. There make ready. 
Luke22:13 (And) They went and found, as he had said unto them: and made ready the ester lamb." 
Luke22:14 And when the hour came,(was come) he sat down and the twelve apostles with him." 
Luke22:15 And he said unto them: I have inwardly(heartedly) desired to eat this ester lamb with you before that I suffer. 
Luke22:16 For I say unto you: henceforth, I will not eat of it any more, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God." 
Luke22:17 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said: Receive(Take) this, and divide it among you." 
Luke22:18 For I say unto you: I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God be come." 
Luke22:19 And he took bread, gave thanks, and brake it, and gave it unto them, saying: This is my body which is given for you. This do in the remembrance of me." 
Luke22:20 Likewise also, when they had supped, he took the cup saying: This is the cup,(This cup is) the new testament, in my blood, which shall for you be shed." 
Luke22:21 Yet behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me, is with me on the table." 
Luke22:22 And the son of man goeth as it is appointed: But woe be to that man by whom he is betrayed. 
Luke22:23 And they began to enquire(ask) among themselves, which of them it should be, that should do that." 
Luke22:24 And there was a strife among them, which of them should seem(be taken for the) greatest." 
Luke22:25 And he said unto them: The kings of the gentiles reign over them;(kings of the world have dominion over the people) And they that bear rule over them, are called gracious lords." 
Luke22:26 But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, shall be as the youngest: And he that is chief, shall be as the minister.(and the chiefest, as a servant)" 
Luke22:27 For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat:(the table) or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meat?(the table) And I am among you, as he that ministereth." 
Luke22:28 Ye are they which have bidden with me in my temptations. 
Luke22:29 And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed to me:" 
Luke22:30 that ye may eat, and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on seats, and judge the twelve tribes of Israel." 
Luke22:31 And the Lord said: Simon, Simon, behold Satan hath desired you, to sift you, as it were wheat:" 
Luke22:32 But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren." 
Luke22:33 And he said unto him. Lord, I am ready to go with thee into prison, and to death." 
Luke22:34 And he said: I tell thee Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, till thou have thrice denied that thou knewest me." 
Luke22:35 And he said unto them: when I sent you without wallet, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye anything? And they said, nothing.(no.)" 
Luke22:36 And he said to them: But now he that hath a wallet let him take it, (up) and likewise his scrip. And he that hath no sword, let him sell his coat and buy one." 
Luke22:37 (For) I say unto you that yet, that which is written must be performed in(fulfilled on) me (Even with the wicked was he numbered) for those things which are written of me have an end." 
Luke22:38 And they said: Lord, behold here are two swords. And he said unto them: it is enough." 
Luke22:39 And he came out, and went as he was wont to mount Olivete. And the disciples followed him." 
Luke22:40 And when he came to the place, he said to them: Pray lest ye fall into temptation." 
Luke22:41 And he gat himself from them, about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed," 
Luke22:42 saying: Father if thou wilt, withdraw this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will; But thine be fulfilled." 
Luke22:43 And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, comforting him." 
Luke22:44 And he was in agony, and prayed somewhat longer.(And it came so, that he wrestled with death and prayed the longer) And his sweat was like drops of blood, trickling(running) down to the ground." 
Luke22:45 And he rose up from prayer, and came to his disciples, and found them sleeping for sorrow,(heaviness)" 
Luke22:46 and said unto them: Why sleep ye? Rise, and pray lest ye fall into temptation.(rise up and pray, that ye fall not into temptation)" 
Luke22:47 While he yet spake: behold, there came a company,(multitude) and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and pressed nigh unto Jesus to kiss him." 
Luke22:48 (And) Jesus said unto him: Judas betrayest thou the son of man with a kiss? 
Luke22:49 When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him. Lord, shall we smite with a sword." 
Luke22:50 And one of them smote a servant of him which was the chief(hiest) priest of all, and smote off his right ear." 
Luke22:51 (And) Jesus answered and said: Suffer ye thus far forth. And he touched his ear, and healed him." 
Luke22:52 (Then) Jesus said unto the high priests and rulers of the temple and the seniors(elders) which were come to him. Be ye come out, as unto a thief with swords and staves?" 
Luke22:53 When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched not forth hands against me. But this is even your very hour, and the power of darkness." 
Luke22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him to the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off." 
Luke22:55 When they had kindled a fire in the midst of the palace, and were set down together, Peter also sat down among them." 
Luke22:56 And one of the wenches, as he sat, beheld him by the light(fire) and set good eyesight on him, and said: This same was also with him." 
Luke22:57 Then he denied him saying: Woman I know him not. 
Luke22:58 And after a little while, another saw him and said: Thou art also of them. And Peter said: Man I am not." 
Luke22:59 And about the space of an hour after another affirmed saying: Verily even this fellow was with him, for he is of Galilee;" 
Luke22:60 (And) Peter said: Man I wot not what thou sayest. And immediately while he yet spake, the cock crew." 
Luke22:61 And the Lord turned back and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the words of the Lord, how he said unto him, before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice." 
Luke22:62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly." 
Luke22:63 And the men that stood about Jesus, mocked him, and smote(stroke) him," 
Luke22:64 and blindfolded him, and smote his face. And asked him saying: Areed(Prophecy) who it is that smote thee?" 
Luke22:65 And many other things despitefully(blasphemies) said they against him. 
Luke22:66 And as soon as it was day, the seniors(elders) of the people, and the high priests and scribes, came together, and led him into their council saying:" 
Luke22:67 Art thou very Christ? tell us. And he said unto them: if I shall tell you, ye will not believe." 
Luke22:68 And if also I ask you, ye will not answer me. Neither(or) let me go." 
Luke22:69 Hereafter shall the son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God. 
Luke22:70 Then said they all: Art thou then the son of God? He said: (to them) ye say that I am. 
Luke22:71 Then said they: What need we any further witness? We ourselves have heard of his own mouth. 
Luke23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate." 
Luke23:2 And they began to accuse him saying: We have found his fellow, perverting the people, and forbidding to pay tribute to Cesar:(the Emperour) And sayeth(saying) that he is Christ a King." 
Luke23:3 And Pilate opposed(asked) him saying: Art thou the King of the Jews? He answered him, and said: thou sayest. (it)" 
Luke23:4 Then said Pilate to the high priests, and to the people: I find no fault in this man." 
Luke23:5 And they were the more fierce, saying: He moveth the people teaching thorow out Jewry, and began at Galilee, even to this place." 
Luke23:6 When Pilate heard mention of Galilee, he asked whether the man were of Galilee." 
Luke23:7 And as soon as he knew(perceived) that he was of Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, which was at that time in Jerusalem also.(which was also at Jerusalem in those days.)" 
Luke23:8 (And) When Herod saw Jesus, he was marvelously(exceedingly) glad. For he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him, and trusted to have seen some miracle done by him." 
Luke23:9 Then questioned he with him of many things: But he answered him not one word. 
Luke23:10 The high priests and scribes, stood forth and accused him straitly.(sore)" 
Luke23:11 And Herod, with his men of war, despised him, and mocked him; And arrayed him in white, and sent him again to Pilate." 
Luke23:12 And the same day Pilate, and Herod were made friends together. For before, they were at variance." 
Luke23:13 (And) Pilate called together the high priests, and (the) rulers, and the people," 
Luke23:14 and said unto them: Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverted the people. And lo(behold) I (have) examined him before you, and have found no fault in this man, of those things whereof ye accuse him." 
Luke23:15 No nor yet Herod. For I sent you to him: and lo no thing worthy of death is done to him. 
Luke23:16 I will therefore chasten him and let him loose. 
Luke23:17 For of necessity, he must have let one loose unto them at that feast.(after the custom of the feast)" 
Luke23:18 And all the people(multitude) cried at once, saying: away with him, and deliver to us Barabbas." 
Luke23:19 (which for insurrection made in the city, and murder, was cast into prison)" 
Luke23:20 Pilate spake again to them willing to let Jesus loose. 
Luke23:21 And they cried, saying: Crucify him; Crucify him." 
Luke23:22 He said unto them the third time: What harm(evil) hath he done? I find no cause of death in him. I will therefore chasten him, and let him go loose." 
Luke23:23 And they cried with loud voice,(lay still upon him with great cry) and required that he might be crucified. And the crying(voice of them and) of the high priests prevailed." 
Luke23:24 And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required," 
Luke23:25 and let loose unto them, him that for insurrection, and murder was cast into prison, whom they desired: and delivered Jesus to do with him what they would." 
Luke23:26 And as they led him away, they caught one Simon of Syrene, coming out of the field: And on him laid they the cross to bear it after Jesus." 
Luke23:27 (And) There followed him a great company(multitude) of people, and of women, which women bewailed, and lamented him." 
Luke23:28 (But) Jesus turned back unto them, and said: Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me: but weep for yourselves, and for your children." 
Luke23:29 For mark,(behold) the days(time) will come, when men shall say: happy(blessed) are the barren and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck." 
Luke23:30 Then shall they begin to say to the mountains: fall on us; and to the hills cover us. 
Luke23:31 For if they do this to a green tree: what shall be done, to the dry?" 
Luke23:32 (And) There were two evil doers(misdoers) led with him to be slain. 
Luke23:33 And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the evil doers,(misdoers) one on right hand, and the other on the left hand." 
Luke23:34 Then said Jesus: Father forgive them, for they wot not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots." 
Luke23:35 And the people stood and beheld. And the rulers mocked him with them saying: He help other men, let him help himself if he be Christ the chosen of God." 
Luke23:36 The soldiers also mocked him, and came and gave him vinegar" 
Luke23:37 and said: if thou be that King of the Jews, save thyself." 
Luke23:38 (And) His superscription was written over him, in greek, latin, and hebrew letters: This is the King of the Jews." 
Luke23:39 The(And) one of the malefactors(evil doers) which hanged, railed on him, saying: If thou be Christ save thyself and us." 
Luke23:40 The other answered and rebuked him saying: Neither fearest thou God because thou art in the same damnation? 
Luke23:41 We are righteously punished, for we receive according to our deeds: But this man hath done no thing amiss." 
Luke23:42 And he said unto Jesus: Lord remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. 
Luke23:43 And Jesus said unto him: Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise." 
Luke23:44 And it was about the sixth hour. And there came a darkness over all the land, until the ninth hour," 
Luke23:45 and the sun was darkened. And the veil of the temple (did) rent even thorow the midst. 
Luke23:46 And Jesus cried with a great voice and said: Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And when he thus had said, he gave up the ghost." 
Luke23:47 When the Centurion(Captain) saw, what had happened, he glorified(praised) God saying: Of a surety this man was perfect.(Verily this was a just man)" 
Luke23:48 And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were done: smote their breasts, and returned home." 
Luke23:49 And all his acquaintance stood afar off, and the women, which followed him from Galilee, beholding these things.(And all his acquaintance, and the women, that followed him from Galile, stood afar off beholding these things.)" 
Luke23:50 And behold there was a man named Joseph a senator,(a councillor) which(and) was a good man and a just;" 
Luke23:51 He(and) did not consent to their(the) counsel and deed, (of them) which was of Aramathia, a city of the jews. Which same also, waited for the kingdom of God:" 
Luke23:52 he went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus." 
Luke23:53 And took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid it in an hewn tomb, wherein was never man before laid." 
Luke23:54 And that day was the Sabbath even;(day of preparing) And the Sabbath drew on. 
Luke23:55 The women that followed after which came with him from Galilee, beheld the sepulchre and how his body was laid." 
Luke23:56 And they returned, and prepared odours,(spices) and ointments; And(but rested) the Sabbath day they rested, according to the commandment.(law)" 
Luke24:1 On the morrow after the Sabbath,(Upon one [or first] of the Sabbaths very) early in the morning, they came unto the tomb and brought the odours(spices) which they had prepared, and other women with them." 
Luke24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre," 
Luke24:3 and went in: but found not the body of the Lord Jesu. 
Luke24:4 And it happened, as they were amazed thereat: lo(behold) two men stood by them, in shining vestures." 
Luke24:5 And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth: they said to them: why seek ye the living among the dead?" 
Luke24:6 He is not here: but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you, when he was yet with you in Galilee," 
Luke24:7 saying: that the son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again." 
Luke24:8 And they remembered his words," 
Luke24:9 and returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all other.(the remnant.)" 
Luke24:10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary Jacobi; And other that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles," 
Luke24:11 and their words seemed unto them feigned things, neither believed they them." 
Luke24:12 Then arose Peter and ran unto the sepulchre, and stooped in; And saw the linen clothes laid by themself. And departed wondering in himself at that which had happened." 
Luke24:13 And behold, two of them went that same day to a town, which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs, called Emaus:" 
Luke24:14 and they talked together of all these things that had happened. 
Luke24:15 And it chanced, as they communed together, and reasoned,(were thus talking and reasoning together) that Jesus himself drew near,(nigh) and went with them." 
Luke24:16 But their eyes were holden, that they could not know him." 
Luke24:17 And he said unto them: What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk, and are sad?" 
Luke24:18 And the one of them named Cleopas, answered, and said unto him: art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which have chanced(come to pass) therein in these days?" 
Luke24:19 To whom he said: what things? And they said unto him: of Jesus of Nazareth which was a prophet, mighty in deed, and word, before God, and all the people." 
Luke24:20 And how the high priests, and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death: and have crucified him." 
Luke24:21 (But) We trusted that it should have been he that should have delivered Israel. And as touching all these things, today is even the third day, that they were done." 
Luke24:22 Yea and certain women also of our company made us astonied, which came early unto the sepulchre," 
Luke24:23 and found not his body. And came saying, that they had seen visions(a vision) of angels which said that he was alive." 
Luke24:24 And certain of them which were with us, went their way to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not." 
Luke24:25 And he said unto them: O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken." 
Luke24:26 Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?" 
Luke24:27 And he began at Moses, and at all the prophets, and interpreted(expounded) unto them, in all scriptures which were written(that were spoken) of him." 
Luke24:28 And they drew nigh unto the town which they went to. And he made, as though he would have gone further." 
Luke24:29 And(But they) constrained(compelled) him, saying: Abide with us for it draweth towards night, and the day is far passed. And he went in to tarry with them." 
Luke24:30 And it came to pass as he sat at meat(the table) with them, he took bread and blessed it,(gave thanks) and brake it and gave it unto them." 
Luke24:31 And their eyes were opened. And they knew him. And he vanished out of their sight," 
Luke24:32 and they said between themselves: did not our hearts burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and(as he) opened to us the scriptures?" 
Luke24:33 And they rose up the same hour, and returned again to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them," 
Luke24:34 saying:(which said:) The Lord is risen in deed, and hath appeared to Simon." 
Luke24:35 And they told what things was done in the way, and how they knew him, by the(in) breaking of bread." 
Luke24:36 As they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and said unto them: peace be with you. (It is I, fear not)" 
Luke24:37 And they were abashed, and afraid, supposing that they had seen a spirit." 
Luke24:38 And he said unto them: Why are ye troubled?(abashed) and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? 
Luke24:39 Behold my hands and my feet. For(that) it is even I myself. Handle me and see. For spirits have not flesh and bones, as ye see me have." 
Luke24:40 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands, and his feet." 
Luke24:41 And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them: Have ye here any meat?(any thing here to eat)" 
Luke24:42 and they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb." 
Luke24:43 And he took it, and ate it before them." 
Luke24:44 And he said unto them: These are the words, which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you: that all must be fulfilled which were written of me in the law of Moses, and in the Prophets, and in the Psalms." 
Luke24:45 Then opened he their wits,(understanding) that they might understand the scriptures," 
Luke24:46 and said unto them: Thus is it written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise again from death the third day." 
Luke24:47 And that repentance, and remission of sins, should be preached in his name among all nations. And the beginning must be(And must begin) at Jerusalem." 
Luke24:48 And ye are witnesses of these things. 
Luke24:49 And behold, I will send the promise of my father upon you. But tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high.(above)" 
Luke24:50 And he led them out into Bethany, and lift up his hands, and blest(blessed) them." 
Luke24:51 And it came to pass, as he blessed them, he departed from them, and was carried up into heaven." 
Luke24:52 And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy." 
Luke24:53 And were continually in the temple, praising, and lauding God.(Giving praise and thanks unto God) (Amen.) [Here endeth the Gospell off Sainct Luke.]" 
John1:1 In the beginning was that(the) word, and that(the) word was with god: and god was that word.(and the word was God.)" 
John1:2 The same was in the beginning with god. 
John1:3 All things were made by it,(the same) and without it,(the same) was made no thing, that made was.(was made.)" 
John1:4 In it(him) was life; And (the) life was the light of men; 
John1:5 And the light shineth in the darkness, and(but the) darkness comprehended it not." 
John1:6 There was a man sent from god, whose name was John." 
John1:7 The same came as a witness, to bear witness of the light, that all men through him might believe." 
John1:8 He was not that light: but to bear witness of the light. 
John1:9 That was a true light, which lighteneth all men that come into the world." 
John1:10 He was in the world, and the world by him was made: and (yet) the world knew him not." 
John1:11 He came among his own, and his (own) received him not." 
John1:12 Unto(But) as many as received him, (to them) gave he power to be the sons of god: in that they believed on his name:" 
John1:13 which were born not of blood nor of the will of the flesh, nor yet of the will of man: but of god." 
John1:14 And that(the) word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we saw the glory of it, as the glory of the only begotten son of the father, which word was full of grace, and verity." 
John1:15 John bare witness of him(and cried) saying: This was he of whom I spake, he that cometh after me, was before me because he was yer than I.(For he was or ever I)" 
John1:16 And of his fullness have all we received, even favour for favour.(grace for grace.)" 
John1:17 For the law was given by Moses, but favour(grace) and verity(truth) came by Jesus Christ." 
John1:18 No man saw(hath seen) god at any time. The only begotten son, which is in the father's bosom, hath declared him." 
John1:19 And this is the record of John: When the jews sent priests, and levites from Jerusalem, to ask him, what art thou?" 
John1:20 And he confessed, and denied not, and said plainly: I am not Christ." 
John1:21 And they asked him: what then? art thou Helias? And he said: I am not. Art thou a(that) prophet? And he answered no. 
John1:22 Then said they unto him: what art thou? That we may give an answer to them that sent us? what sayest thou of thy self? 
John1:23 He said: I am the voice of a crier in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esayas." 
John1:24 And they which were sent, were of the pharisees." 
John1:25 And they asked him, and said unto him: why baptisest thou then, if thou be not Christ, nor Helias, neither a prophet?" 
John1:26 John answered them saying: I baptise with water: but one is come among you, whom ye know not," 
John1:27 he it is that cometh after me, which was before me, whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to unloose." 
John1:28 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John did baptise." 
John1:29 The next day, John saw Jesus coming unto him, and said: behold the lamb of god, which taketh away the sin of the world." 
John1:30 This is he of whom I spake:(said:) After me cometh a man, which was before me. For he was yer than I," 
John1:31 and I knew him not: but that he should be declared to Israel, therefore came I(am I come) baptising with water." 
John1:32 And John bare record, saying: I saw the spirit descend from heaven, like unto a dove, and it abode(abide) upon him, and I knew him not:" 
John1:33 But he that sent me to baptise in water,(the same) said unto me: Upon whom thou shalt see the spirit descend, and tarry still on him, the same is he which baptiseth with the holy ghost." 
John1:34 And I saw it, and bare record, that this is the son of God." 
John1:35 The next day after John stood again, and two of his disciples," 
John1:36 and he beheld Jesus as he walked by, and said: behold the lamb of God." 
John1:37 And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus." 
John1:38 (And) Jesus turned about, and saw them follow, and said unto them: What seek ye? They said unto him: Rabbi (which is to say by interpretation, Master) where dwellest thou?" 
John1:39 He said unto them: come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt: and abode with him that day. For it was about the tenth hour. 
John1:40 One of the two which heard John speak, and followed Jesus, was Andrew Simon Peter's brother." 
John1:41 The same found his brother Simon first, and said unto him: we have found Messias, which is by interpretation anointed:" 
John1:42 And brought him to Jesus. And Jesus beheld him and said: thou art Simon the son of Jonas, thou shalt be called Cephas: which is by interpretation a stone." 
John1:43 The day following Jesus would go into Galilee, and found Philip, and said unto him, follow me." 
John1:44 Philip was of Bethsaida the city of Andrew and Peter. 
John1:45 (And) Philip found Nathanael, and said unto him: We have found him of whom Moses wrote in the law, and the prophets:(did write) Jesus the son of Joseph of Nazareth." 
John1:46 And Nathanael said unto him: Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him: Come and see. 
John1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said of him: Behold a right Israelite, in whom is no guile." 
John1:48 Nathanael said unto him: From whence(where) knewest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him: Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee." 
John1:49 Nathanael answered and said unto him: Rabbi, thou art the son of God; Thou art the King of Israel." 
John1:50 Jesus answered and said unto him: Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, thou believest. Thou shalt see greater things than these." 
John1:51 And he said unto him: Verily, verily, I say unto you: hereafter shall ye see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending, and descending over the son of man." 
John2:1 And the third day, was there a marriage in Cana a city of Galilee. And Jesus' mother was there." 
John2:2 (And) Jesus was called also and his disciples unto the marriage. 
John2:3 And when the wine failed, Jesus' mother said unto him: they have no wine." 
John2:4 Jesus said unto her: woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come." 
John2:5 His mother said unto the ministers: whatsoever he sayeth unto you, do it." 
John2:6 And there were standing (there,) six waterpots of stone after the manner of the purifying of the jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.(three measures)" 
John2:7 (And) Jesus said unto them: fill the water pots with water, and they filled them up to the hard brim." 
John2:8 And he said unto them: Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it." 
John2:9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was turned unto wine, neither(and) knew(not) whence it was (But the ministers which drew the water knew) He called the bridegroom," 
John2:10 and said unto him: all men at the beginning set forth good wine; And when men be drunk, then that which is worse: But thou hast kept back the good wine hitherto.(until now.)" 
John2:11 This beginning of miracles(first token) did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and shewed his glory, and his disciples believed on him." 
John2:12 After that descended he into(went he down to) Capernaum, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: But continued not long(many days) there." 
John2:13 And the jews' ester was even at hand; And Jesus went up to Jerusalem," 
John2:14 and found sitting in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep, and doves, and changers of money sitting." 
John2:15 And he made a scourge of small cords, and drave them all out of the temple, both(with the) sheep and oxen, and poured down(out) the changers' money, and overthrew their(the) tables." 
John2:16 And said unto them that sold doves: Have these things hence, and make not my father's house, an house of merchandise." 
John2:17 (And) His disciples remembered, how that it was written: The zeal of thine house, hath even eaten me." 
John2:18 Then answered the jews and said unto him: what token shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou dost(that thou mayest do) these things?" 
John2:19 Jesus answered, and said unto them: destroy(break down) this temple, and in three days I will raise(rear) it up again." 
John2:20 Then said the jews: In forty six years this temple was built:(was this temple a building:) and wilt thou raise it up in three days? 
John2:21 But he spake of the temple of his body. 
John2:22 As soon therefore as he was risen from death again, his disciples remembered that he thus said unto them. And they believed the scripture, and the words which Jesus had said." 
John2:23 When he was at Jerusalem, at ester in the feast, many believed on his name: when they saw the signs(his miracles) which he did:" 
John2:24 but Jesus put not himself in their hands, because he knew all men," 
John2:25 and needed not, that any man should testify of man.(him.) For he knew what was in man." 
John3:1 There was a man of the pharisees named Nicodemus a ruler among the jews. 
John3:2 He(The same) came to Jesus by night, and said unto him: Master,(Rabbi) we know that thou art, a teacher which art come from God. For no man could do such miracles(these tokens) as thou doest, except God were with him:" 
John3:3 Jesus answered, and said unto him: Verily, verily I say unto thee: except a man be born a new, he cannot see the kingdom of God." 
John3:4 Nicodemus said unto him: how can a man be born, when he is old? can he enter into his mother's body(womb) and be born again?" 
John3:5 Jesus answered: verily, verily I say unto thee: except that a man be born of water, and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 
John3:6 That which is born of the flesh, is flesh. And that which is born of the spirit, is spirit." 
John3:7 Marvel not that I said to thee, ye must be born a new." 
John3:8 The wind bloweth where he listeth, and thou hearest his sound: but canst not tell whence he cometh and whither he goeth. So is every man that is born of the spirit." 
John3:9 And Nicodemus answered and said unto him: how can these things be? 
John3:10 Jesus answered and said unto him: Art thou a master in Israel, and knowest not these things?" 
John3:11 Verily, verily I say unto thee, we speak that we know, and testify that we have seen: And ye receive not our witness." 
John3:12 If I have told(when I tell) you earthly things and ye have not believe: How should ye believe if I shall tell you of heavenly things? 
John3:13 And no man ascendeth up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, that is to say, the son of man which is in heaven." 
John3:14 And as Moses lift up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the son of man be lift up," 
John3:15 that none which(that) believeth in him perish: but have eternal life. 
John3:16 (For) God so loved(loveth) the world, that he gave(hath given) his only son for the intent, that none that believe in him, should perish: But should have everlasting life." 
John3:17 For God sent not his son into the world, to condemn the world: But that the world through him, might be saved.(might be saved by him)" 
John3:18 He that believeth on him shall not be condemned. But he that believeth not, is condemned all ready, because he believeth not in the name of the only son of God." 
John3:19 And this is the condemnation: (that) Light is come into the world, and the men have loved darkness more than light, because their deeds were evil." 
John3:20 For every man that evil doeth, hateth the light: neither cometh to light, lest his deeds should be reproved." 
John3:21 But he that doth truth, cometh to the light, that his deeds might be known, how that they are wrought(done) in God." 
John3:22 After that(these things) came Jesus and his disciples into the jews' land, and there abode(he haunted) with them and baptised," 
John3:23 and John also baptised in Enon besides Salim, because there was much water there, and they came, and were baptised." 
John3:24 For John was not yet cast into prison. 
John3:25 (And) There arose a question between John's disciples and the jews about purifying. 
John3:26 And they came unto John, and said unto him: Master,(Rabbi) behold he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness,(belhold the same) baptiseth, and all men come to him." 
John3:27 John answered, and said: A man can receive nothing at all except it be given him from heaven." 
John3:28 Ye yourselves are witnesses, how that I said: I am not Christ: but am sent before him." 
John3:29 He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: But the friend of the bridegroom which standeth by and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly of the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this my joy is fulfilled." 
John3:30 He must increase: and I must decrease. 
John3:31 He that cometh from on high is above all: he that is of the earth is of(off) the earth,(earthly) and speaketh of the earth. He that cometh from heaven, is above all:" 
John3:32 And testifieth that he hath seen, and heard: and his testimony no man receiveth.(and what he hath seen and heard: that he testifieth: but no man receiveth his testimony.)" 
John3:33 Whosoever receiveth his witness, the same hath sealed that God is true.(How be it, he that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true.)" 
John3:34 For he whom God hath sent, speaketh the words of God. For God giveth not the spirit by measure." 
John3:35 The father loveth the son, and hath given all things into his hand." 
John3:36 He that believeth on the son, hath everlasting life. And he that beloveth(believeth) not the son, shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him." 
John4:1 As soon as the Lord had knowledge, how that it was come to the ears of the pharisees,(how the Pharisees had heard) that Jesus made and baptised more disciples than John" 
John4:2 (though that Jesus himself baptised not: but his disciples) 
John4:3 he left Jewry, and departed again in to Galilee." 
John4:4 And it was so that he must needs go thorow Samaria. 
John4:5 Then came he to a city of Samaria called Sichar besides the possession(nigh unto the piece of land) that Jacob gave to his son Joseph," 
John4:6 and there was Jacob's well. Jesus then wearied in his journey, sat thus on the well. (And) It was about the sixth hour:" 
John4:7 (And) There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. (And) Jesus said unto her: Give me drink. 
John4:8 (for his disciples were gone away unto the town to buy meat.) 
John4:9 (Then) The woman of Samaria said unto him: how is it, that thou being a jew(iewe) askest drink of me, which am a Samaritan? (for the jews meddle not with the Samaritans.)" 
John4:10 Jesus answered and said unto her: if thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is, that sayeth to thee give me drink: thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee water of life." 
John4:11 The woman said unto him: Sir thou hast no thing to draw it withal, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that water of life?" 
John4:12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and he himself drank thereof and his children and his cattle?" 
John4:13 Jesus answered and said unto her: whosoever drinketh of this water, shall thirst again." 
John4:14 But whosoever shall drink of the water that I shall give him, shall never be more a thirst: But the water that I shall give him, shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." 
John4:15 The woman said unto him: Sir give me of that water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw." 
John4:16 Jesus said unto her: Go and call thy husband, and come hither." 
John4:17 The woman answered and said to him: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast well said, I have no husband." 
John4:18 For thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast, is not thy husband. That saidst thou truly.(there saydest thou right)" 
John4:19 The woman said unto him: Sir I perceive(see) that thou art a prophet. 
John4:20 Our fathers worshipped in this mountain: and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to pray.(worship.) 
John4:21 Jesus said unto her: woman trust(believe) me; The hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the father." 
John4:22 Ye worship ye wot nere(not) what: we know what we worship. For salvation cometh of the jews. 
John4:23 But the hour cometh, and now is, (allready) when the true worshippers shall worship the father in spirit, and in verity.(trouth) For verily such the father requireth to worship him." 
John4:24 God is a spirit, and they that worship him, must honour(worship) him, in spirit and verity.(trouth, or real fidelity of truth)" 
John4:25 The woman said unto him: I wot well Messias shall come, which is called Christ. When he is once come, he will tell us all things." 
John4:26 Jesus said unto her: I that speak unto thee, am he." 
John4:27 And even at that point,(in the mean season) came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said unto him: what meanest(askest) thou, or why talkest thou with her?" 
John4:28 The woman (then) left her water pot behind her, and went her way into the city, and said to the men(people) there:" 
John4:29 Come see a man which told me all things that ever I did. Is not he Christ? 
John4:30 Then they went out of the city, and came unto him." 
John4:31 (And) In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him saying: Master eat. 
John4:32 He said unto them: I have meat to eat, that ye know not of." 
John4:33 Then said the disciples between(among) themselves: hath any man brought him meat? 
John4:34 Jesus said unto them: My meat is to fulfill (do) the will of him that sent me. And to finish his work. 
John4:35 Say not ye: There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? Behold I say unto you, lift up your eyes, and look on the regions: For they are white already unto harvest." 
John4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth reward, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal:(everlasting life) That both he that soweth, might rejoice also, and he that reapeth.(that both he that soweth and he that reapeth might rejoice to gether.)" 
John4:37 And herein is the saying(proverb) true, that one soweth; And another reapeth." 
John4:38 I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labor. Other men laboured; And ye are entered into their labors. 
John4:39 Many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him; For the woman's saying, which testified: He told me all things that ever I did." 
John4:40 Then when the Samaritans were come unto him; They besought him, that he would tarry with them. And he abode there two days." 
John4:41 And many more believed because of his own words. 
John4:42 And said unto the woman: Now we believe not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is even indeed(of a truth is) Christ the saviour of the world." 
John4:43 After two days, he departed thence, and went away into Galilee." 
John4:44 And Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath none honour in his own country." 
John4:45 Then as soon as he was come into Galilee, the Galileans received him which had seen all (the) things, that he did at Jerusalem on(at) the feast. For they went also unto the feast day." 
John4:46 And Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he turned water into wine. And there was a certain ruler, whose son was sick at Capernaum." 
John4:47 As soon as the same heard that Jesus was come out of Jewry into Galilee he went unto him, and besought him, that he would descend, and heal his son: For he was even ready to die." 
John4:48 Then said Jesus unto him: Except ye see signs(tokens) and wonders, ye believe not.(ye cannot believe.)" 
John4:49 The ruler said unto him: Sir come away or ever that my child die. 
John4:50 Jesus said unto him go thy way, thy son liveth. And the man believed the words that Jesus had spoken unto him, and went his way." 
John4:51 And anon as he went on his way, his servants met him, and told him, saying: thy child liveth;" 
John4:52 Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him: Yesterday the seventh hour, the fever left him." 
John4:53 And the father knew(perceived) that it was the same hour in which Jesus said unto him: Thy son liveth. And he believed, and all his household." 
John4:54 This is again the second miracle,(token) that Jesus did, after he was come out of Jewry into Galilee." 
John5:1 After that there was a feast of the jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem." 
John5:2 (And) There is at Jerusalem, by the slaughterhouse a pool called in the Hebrew tongue, bethesda, having five porches," 
John5:3 in them(which) lay a great multitude of sick folk, of blind, halt,(lame) and withered, waiting for the moving of the water." 
John5:4 For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool and stirred(troubled) the water. Whosoever then first after the stirring of the water stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had." 
John5:5 And a certain man was there, which had been diseased thirty eight years." 
John5:6 When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he now long time had been diseased, he said unto him: Wilt thou be (made) whole?" 
John5:7 The sick answered him: Sir I have no man when the water is moved,(troubled) to put me into the pool. But in the mean time, while I am about to come, another steppeth down before me." 
John5:8 (And) Jesus said unto him: rise, take up thy bed, and walk." 
John5:9 And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and went. And the same day was the Sabbath day." 
John5:10 The jews therefore said unto him that was made whole: It is the Sabbath day, it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed." 
John5:11 He answered them: he that made me whole, said unto me: Take up thy bed, and get thee hence.(go thy way)" 
John5:12 Then asked they him: what man is that which said unto thee, take up thy bed and walk?" 
John5:13 And he that was healed, wist not who it was. For Jesus had gotten himself away, because that there was press of people in the place." 
John5:14 (And) After that, Jesus found him in the temple, and said unto him: Behold thou art made whole, see thou sin no more, lest a worse thing happen unto thee." 
John5:15 The man departed, and told the jews that it was Jesus, the which had made him whole." 
John5:16 And therefore the jews did persecute Jesus, and sought the means to slay him, because he had done these things on the Sabbath day." 
John5:17 (And) Jesus answered them: My father worketh hitherto, and I work." 
John5:18 Therefore the jews sought the more to kill(slay) him, not only because he had broken the Sabbath: but said also that God was his father and made himself equal with God." 
John5:19 Then answered Jesus and said unto them: verily, verily, I say unto you: the son can do no thing of himself: but that he seeth the father do. For whatsoever he doeth, that doeth the son also." 
John5:20 For the father loveth the son, and sheweth him all things, whatsoever he himself doeth. And he will shew him greater works than these, because ye should marvel." 
John5:21 For likewise as the father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them, even so the son quickeneth whom he will." 
John5:22 Neither judgeth the father any man: but hath committed(hath given) all judgement unto the son," 
John5:23 because that all men should honour the son, even as they honour the father. He that honoureth not the son, the same honoureth not the father which hath sent him." 
John5:24 Verily, verily I say unto you: He that heareth my words; And believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into damnation: but is scaped from death unto life." 
John5:25 Verily, verily I say unto you: the time shall come, and now is, (allready) when the dead shall hear the voice of the son of God. And they that hear, shall live." 
John5:26 For as the father hath life in himself, so likewise hath he given to the son to have life in himself." 
John5:27 And hath given him power also to judge in that he is the son of man. 
John5:28 Marvel not at this, that the hour shall come, in the which all that are in the graves, shall hear his voice," 
John5:29 and shall come forth, they that have done good unto the resurrection of life. And they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation." 
John5:30 I can of mine own self do nothing at all. As I hear I judge, and my judgement is just, because I seek not mine own will: But the will of the father which hath sent me." 
John5:31 If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true." 
John5:32 There is another that beareth witness of me. And I am sure that the witness which he beareth of me is true. 
John5:33 Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth:" 
John5:34 but I receive no(not the) record of man. Nevertheless, these things I say, that ye might be safe." 
John5:35 He was a burning, and a shining light, and ye would for a season have rejoiced in his light." 
John5:36 But I have greater witness, than the witness of John. For the works which my(the) father hath given me to finish: the same works which(that) I do, bear witness of me, that my(the) father sent me." 
John5:37 And my(the) father himself,(him self) which hath sent me, beareth witness of me. Ye have not heard his voice at any time; Nor yet(ye) have seen his shape.(hysshape)" 
John5:38 And(thereto) his words have ye not abiding in you: For ye believe not him whom he hath sent.(For whom he hath sent: him ye believe not.) 
John5:39 Search the scriptures, for in them, ye think ye have eternal life: And they are they which testify of me." 
John5:40 And yet will ye not come to me that ye might have life. 
John5:41 I receive not praise of men: 
John5:42 But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you." 
John5:43 I am come in my father's name, and ye receive me not. If another shall come in his own name, him will ye receive." 
John5:44 How can ye believe, which receive praise(honour) one of another, and seek not the praise which(honour that) cometh of God only?" 
John5:45 Suppose not,(Do not think) that I will accuse you to my father. There is one that accuseth you, verily(even) Moses in whom ye trust." 
John5:46 For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: For he wrote of me." 
John5:47 But when(seeing) ye believe not his writing: how shall ye believe my words. 
John6:1 After that(these things) went Jesus his way over the sea of Galilee nigh to a city called Tiberias. 
John6:2 And a great multitude(much people) followed him, because they had seen his miracles(tokens) that(which) he did on them that were diseased." 
John6:3 (And) Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples." 
John6:4 (And ester a feast of the jews, was nigh.)" 
John6:5 Then Jesus lift up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, and said unto Philip: whence shall we buy bread that these might eat:" 
John6:6 This he said to prove him. For he himself knew what he would do. 
John6:7 Philip answered him, two hundred pennyworth of bread are not sufficient for them, that every man have a little." 
John6:8 Then said unto him, one of his disciples (Andrew Simon Peter's brother.)" 
John6:9 There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two fishes: but what is that among so many?" 
John6:10 (And) Jesus said: Make the people to sit down. (There was much grass in the place.) And the men sat down, in number, about five thousand." 
John6:11 (And) Jesus took the bread, and gave thanks, and gave to his(the) disciples, and his disciples, to them that were set down. And likewise of the fishes, as much as they would." 
John6:12 When they had eaten enough, he said unto his disciples: gather up the broken meat that remaineth: that nothing be lost." 
John6:13 (And) They gathered it together, and filled twelve baskets with the broken meat, of the five barley loaves, which broken meat remained unto them that had eaten." 
John6:14 Then those men, when they had seen the miracle(token) that Jesus did, said: This is of a truth the same prophet which shall(that should) come into the world." 
John6:15 (When) Jesus knew well enough,(perceived) that they would come, and take him up, to make him King: and therefore departed he again, into a mountain, himself alone." 
John6:16 (And) When even was come his disciples went unto the sea," 
John6:17 and entered into a ship. And went over the sea unto Capernaum. And anon it was dark, and Jesus was not come to them." 
John6:18 And the sea arose with a great wind. (that blew) 
John6:19 (And) When they had rowed about a twenty five or a thirty furlongs, they saw Jesus walk on the sea, and to draw nigh unto the ship, and they were afraid." 
John6:20 And he said unto them: It is I, be not afraid." 
John6:21 Then would they have received him into the ship, and the ship was by and by at the land whither they went." 
John6:22 The day following, the people which stood on the other side of the sea, saw that there was none other ship there save that one wherein his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not in with his disciples into the ship: but that his disciples were gone away alone." 
John6:23 ( (Howbeit,) There came other ships from Tiberias nigh unto the place, where they ate bread, when the Lord had blessed.)(given thanks)" 
John6:24 Then when the people saw that Jesus was not there neither his disciples, they also took shipping and came to Capernaum seeking for Jesus." 
John6:25 And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him: Master(Rabbi) when camest thou hither?" 
John6:26 Jesus answered them and said: verily, verily I say unto you: ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles: but because ye ate of the loaves, and were filled." 
John6:27 Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for the meat that endureth unto everlasting life, which meat the son of man shall give unto you. For him hath God the father sealed." 
John6:28 Then said they unto him: what shall we do that we might work the works of God? 
John6:29 Jesus answered and said unto them: This is the work of God, that ye believe on him, whom he hath sent." 
John6:30 They said unto him: what sign shewest thou then? that we may see and believe thee? What dost thou work? 
John6:31 our fathers did eat manna in the desert,(wilderness) as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat." 
John6:32 Jesus said unto them: verily, verily I say unto you: Moses gave you not bread(Moses gave you bread) from heaven: but my father giveth you the true bread from heaven." 
John6:33 For he is the bread of God, which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world." 
John6:34 Then said they unto him: Master(Lord) ever more give us this bread. 
John6:35 And Jesus said unto them: I am that bread of life. He that cometh to me, shall not hunger: and he that believeth on me shall never thirst." 
John6:36 But I said unto you: that ye have seen me, and yet believe ye not." 
John6:37 All that my(the) father giveth me, cometh(shall come) to me: and him that cometh to me, cast I not out at the doors.(away.)" 
John6:38 For I came down from heaven: not to do mine own will: but his will which hath sent me. 
John6:39 And this is my(the) fathers will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I shall loose no thing:(should lose nothing:) but should raise it up again at the last day." 
John6:40 And this is the will of him that sent me: That every man which seeth the son; And believeth on him, have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day." 
John6:41 The jews (then) murmured at it,(him) because he said: I am that bread (of life) which is come down from heaven." 
John6:42 And they said: Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father, and mother we know? How is it then that he sayeth, I came down from heaven?" 
John6:43 Jesus answered and said unto them. Murmur not between(among) yourselves. 
John6:44 No man can come to me except my(the) father which hath sent me, draw him. And I will raise him up at the last day." 
John6:45 It is written in the prophets: And(that) they shall all be taught of God. Every man which(therefore that) hath heard, and (hath) learned of the father, cometh unto me," 
John6:46 not that any man hath seen the father, save he which is of God. The same hath seen the father." 
John6:47 Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life." 
John6:48 I am that bread of life. 
John6:49 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead?" 
John6:50 This is that bread which cometh from heaven, that he which of it eateth, should also not die." 
John6:51 I am that living bread which came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever. And the bread that I will give, is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world." 
John6:52 (And) The jews strove among themselves saying: How can this fellow give us his flesh to eat? 
John6:53 (Then) Jesus said unto them: Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye eat the flesh of the son of man, and drink his blood, ye shall not have life in you." 
John6:54 Whosoever eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, the same hath eternal(everlasting) life: And I will raise him up at the last day." 
John6:55 For my flesh is meat indeed: and my blood is drink indeed. 
John6:56 He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me and I in him." 
John6:57 As my(the) living father hath sent me, even so live I by my father: and he that eateth me, shall live by me." 
John6:58 This is the bread which came from heaven: not as your fathers have eaten manna and are dead. He that eateth of this bread, shall live ever." 
John6:59 These things said he in the synagogue as he taught in Capernaum. 
John6:60 Many (therefore) of his disciples, when they had heard this, said: this is an hard saying; Who can abide the hearing of it?" 
John6:61 Jesus knew(perceived) in himself, that his disciples murmured at it, and said unto them: Doth this offend you?" 
John6:62 what and if ye shall see the son of man ascend up where he was before? 
John6:63 It is the spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you are spirit and life." 
John6:64 But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning, which they were that believed not. And who should betray him." 
John6:65 And he said: Therefore said I unto you: that no man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my father." 
John6:66 From that time many of his disciples went away from him,(back) and companied(walked) no more with him." 
John6:67 Then said Jesus to the twelve: will ye also go away? 
John6:68 (Then) Simon Peter answered him: Master to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal(everlasting) life; 
John6:69 And we have believed, and known, that thou art Christ the son of the living God." 
John6:70 Jesus answered them: Have not I chosen you twelve? And yet one of you is the devil? 
John6:71 He spake it of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon. For he it was that should betray him, and was one of the twelve." 
John7:1 After that Jesus went about into Galilee, and would not go about in Jewry, for the jews sought to kill him." 
John7:2 The jews' tabernacle feast was at hand. 
John7:3 His brethren therefore said unto him: Get thyself(thee) hence and go into Jewry that thy disciples may see thy works that thou doest. 
John7:4 (For) There is no man that doeth any thing secretly, and he himself seeketh to be known. If thou do such things, shew thyself to the world." 
John7:5 For as yet his brethren believed not in him. 
John7:6 Then Jesus said unto them: My time is not yet come, your time is alway ready." 
John7:7 The world cannot hate you. Me it hateth: Because I testify of it, that the works of it are evil." 
John7:8 Go ye up unto this feast, I will not go up yet unto this feast, for my time is not yet full come." 
John7:9 These words he said unto them, and abode still in Galilee." 
John7:10 (But) As soon as his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly: but as it were privily." 
John7:11 Then sought him the jews at the feast, and said: Where is he?" 
John7:12 And much murmuring was there of him among the people. Some said: He is good. Other said nay, but he deceiveth the people." 
John7:13 (Howbeit) No man spake openly of him, for fear of the jews." 
John7:14 In the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple, and taught." 
John7:15 And the jews marveled, saying: How knoweth he the scriptures? seeing that he never learned." 
John7:16 Jesus answered them, and said: My doctrine is not mine: but his that sent me." 
John7:17 If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God: or whether I spake(speak) of myself." 
John7:18 He that speaketh of himself, seeketh his own praise. But he that seeketh his praise that sent him, he(the same) is true, and no unrighteousness is in him." 
John7:19 Did not Moses give you a law? And yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me? 
John7:20 The people answered and said: Thou hast the devil. Who goeth about to kill thee? 
John7:21 Jesus answered, and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel." 
John7:22 Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision, not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers. And yet ye on the Sabbath day circumcise a man." 
John7:23 If a man on the Sabbath day receive circumcision without breaking of the law of Moses: Disdain ye at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the Sabbath day?" 
John7:24 Judge not after the utter appearance: but judge righteous judgement. 
John7:25 Then said some of them of Jerusalem: Is not this he whom they go about to kill? 
John7:26 behold he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing to him. Do not our rulers(Do the rulers) know in deed, that this is very Christ?" 
John7:27 But(Howbeit) we know this man whence he is, but when Christ cometh, no man shall know whence he is." 
John7:28 Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught saying: And me ye know, and whence I am ye know: and (yet) I am not come of myself. But he that sent me is true, whom ye know not." 
John7:29 I know him: (And if I say that I know him not, I shall be a lier like unto you, but I know him) For I am of him, and he hath sent me." 
John7:30 Then sought the jews(they) to take him, but no man laid hands on him, because his time was not yet come." 
John7:31 Many of the people believed on him, and said: When Christ cometh: Will he do more miracles than this man hath done?" 
John7:32 The pharisees heard that the people murmured such things about him: and(Wherefore) the pharisees and scribes(hye priests) sent ministers(servants) forth to take him. 
John7:33 Then said Jesus unto them: Yet am I a little while with you, and then go I unto him that sent me." 
John7:34 Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: And where I am, thither can ye not come." 
John7:35 Then said the jews between themselves: Whither will he go? that we shall not find him. Will he go among the gentiles, which are scattered all abroad, and teach the gentiles?" 
John7:36 What manner of saying is this that he said: ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: And where I am, thither can ye not come?" 
John7:37 In the last day, that great day of the feast: Jesus stood and cried saying: If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink." 
John7:38 Whosoever(He that) believeth on me, as sayeth the scripture, out of his belly shall flow rivers of water of life." 
John7:39 This spake he of the spirit, which they that believed on him should receive. For the holy ghost was not yet there, because that Jesus was not yet glorified." 
John7:40 Many of the people, when they heard this saying said: This is, no doubt,(of a truth) a Prophet." 
John7:41 Other said: this is Christ. Some said: shall Christ come out of Galilee? 
John7:42 Saith not the scripture that Christ shall come of the seed of David: and out of the town of Bethlehem where David was? 
John7:43 So was there dissension among the people for his sake.(about him.) 
John7:44 And some of them would have taken him: but no man laid hands on him. 
John7:45 Then came the ministers(servants) to the high priests, and pharisees. And they said unto them: why have ye not brought him?" 
John7:46 The servants answered: never man spake as this man speaketh.(doeth.) 
John7:47 Then answered them the pharisees: are ye also deceived? 
John7:48 Doth any of the rulers, or of the pharisees believe on him?" 
John7:49 But the common people which know not the law are accursed. 
John7:50 Nicodemus said unto them (He that came to Jesus by night which(and) was one of them.) 
John7:51 Doth our law judge any man, before it be heard,(hear him) and known, what he hath done?" 
John7:52 They answered, and said unto him: Art thou also of Galilee? Search and look, for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet." 
John7:53 And every man went unto his own house. 
John8:1 (And) Jesus went unto mount olivet," 
John8:2 and early in the morning came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; And he sat down, and taught them." 
John8:3 (And) The scribes and pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in advoutry, and set her in the midst and said unto him:" 
John8:4 Master this woman was taken in advoutry, even as the deed was a doing." 
John8:5 Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned: What sayest thou therefore? 
John8:6 And this they said to tempt him: that they might have, whereof to accuse him. Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground." 
John8:7 And while they continued asking him, he lifted himself up; And said unto them: let him that is among you without sin, cast the first stone at her." 
John8:8 And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. 
John8:9 (And) As soon as they heard that, they went out one by one the eldest first. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst." 
John8:10 When Jesus had lifted up himself again, and saw no man, but the woman; He said unto her: Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" 
John8:11 She said: Sir no man.(No man Lorde.) (And) Jesus said: Neither do I condemn thee. Go hence and sin no more. 
John8:12 Then spake Jesus again unto them saying: I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness: but shall have the light of life. 
John8:13 The pharisees said unto him: thou bearest record of thyself, thy record is not true." 
John8:14 Jesus answered and said unto them: And if(Though) I bear record of myself, (yet) my record is true for I know whence I come,(came) and whither I go. (But) Ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go." 
John8:15 Ye judge after the flesh, I judge no man," 
John8:16 and if(though) I judge, then(yet) is my judgement true. For I am not alone: but I and my(the) father that sent me." 
John8:17 It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true." 
John8:18 I am one that bear witness of myself, and my(the) father that sent me beareth witness of me." 
John8:19 Then said they unto him: where is thy father? Jesus answered: ye neither know me, nor yet my father. If ye had known me, ye should have known my father also." 
John8:20 These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple. And no man laid hands on him; For his time was not yet come." 
John8:21 Then said Jesus again unto them: I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. Whither I go thither can ye not come." 
John8:22 Then spake(said) the jews: will he kill himself, because he saith: whither I go, thither can ye not come?" 
John8:23 And he said unto them: ye are from beneath, I am from above. Ye are of this world, I am not of this world." 
John8:24 I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins. For except ye believe that I am he, ye shall die in your sins." 
John8:25 Then said they unto him, who art thou? And Jesus said unto them: Even the very same thing that I say unto you." 
John8:26 I have many things to say, and to judge of you. But(Ye and) he that sent me is true. And I speak in the world, those things which I have heard of him." 
John8:27 (Howbeit) They understood not that he spake of his father. 
John8:28 Then said Jesus unto them: When ye have lift up on high(an hye) the son of man then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself; But as my father hath taught me, even so I speak." 
John8:29 And he that sent me is with me. My(the) father hath not left me alone; For I do always those things that please him. 
John8:30 As he spake these words, many believed on him." 
John8:31 Then said Jesus to those jews which believed on him: If ye continue in my saying,(words) then are ye my very disciples:" 
John8:32 and ye shall know the truth: And the truth shall make you free. 
John8:33 They answered him: We be Abraham's seed, and were never bond to any man: why sayest thou then, ye shall be made free?" 
John8:34 Jesus answered them: verily, verily I say unto you, that whosoever committeth sin, is the servant of sin." 
John8:35 And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: But the son abideth ever. 
John8:36 If the son therefore shall make you free, then are ye free in deed." 
John8:37 I know that ye are Abraham's seed: but ye seek means to kill me because my sayings have no place in you. 
John8:38 I speak that I have seen with my father: and ye do that which ye have seen with your father. 
John8:39 They answered and said unto him: Abraham is our father. Jesus said unto them. If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the deeds of Abraham." 
John8:40 But now ye go about to kill me, a man that have told you the truth, which I have heard of my father.(God:) This did not Abraham." 
John8:41 Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they unto him: we were not born of fornication. We have one father that(which) is God. 
John8:42 Jesus said unto them: if God were your father, then would ye have loved me. For I proceeded forth and come from God. Neither came I of myself, but he sent me." 
John8:43 Why do ye not know my speech? (Even) Because ye cannot abide the hearing of my words. 
John8:44 Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father, ye will follow:(do.) He was a murderer from the beginning; And abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, then speaketh he of his own. For he is a liar, and the father thereof." 
John8:45 And because I tell you the truth, therefore believe ye not me.(therefore ye believe me not.)" 
John8:46 Which of you can rebuke me of sin? If I say the truth, why do not ye believe me?" 
John8:47 He that is of God, heareth God's(goddes) words. Ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God." 
John8:48 Then answered the jews and said unto him: Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan and hast the devil? 
John8:49 Jesus answered: I have not the devil: but I honour my father, and ye have dishonored me." 
John8:50 I seek not mine own praise: (but) There is one that seeketh it and judgeth. 
John8:51 Verily, verily I say unto you, if a man keep my sayings, he shall never see death." 
John8:52 Then said the jews to him: Now know we that thou hast the devil. Abraham is dead, and also the prophets, and yet thou sayest: if a man keep my saying he shall never taste of death." 
John8:53 Art thou greater than our father Abraham? which is dead? and the prophets are dead. Whom makest thou thyself? 
John8:54 Jesus answered: If I praise(honour) myself, mine praise(honour) is nothing worth. It is my father that praiseth(honoureth) me, which ye say is your God." 
John8:55 And yet have ye not known him: but I know him.(your God, and ye have not known him:) And if I should say, I know him not, I should be a liar like unto you; But I know him, and keep his saying.(word)" 
John8:56 Your father Abraham was glad to see my day, and he saw it and rejoiced." 
John8:57 Then said the jews unto him: Thou art not yet fifty year old, and hast thou seen Abraham?" 
John8:58 Jesus said unto them: Verily, verily I say unto you: yer Abraham was I am." 
John8:59 Then took they up stones, to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple." 
John9:1 And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth;" 
John9:2 And his disciples asked him saying: Master, who did sin: this man, or his father and mother, that he was born blind?" 
John9:3 Jesus answered: Neither this man hath sinned, nor yet his father and mother: but that the works of God should be shewed on him." 
John9:4 I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day. The night cometh, when no man can work." 
John9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world." 
John9:6 As soon as he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and rubbed the clay on the eyes of the blind," 
John9:7 and said unto him: Go wash thee in the pool of Siloe (which by interpretation, signifieth sent.) He went his way and washed, and came again seeing." 
John9:8 The neighbours, and they that had seen him before how that he was a beggar said: Is not this he that sat and begged?" 
John9:9 Some said: this is he. Other said: he is like him. (But) He himself said: I am even he. 
John9:10 They said unto him: How are thine eyes opened then? 
John9:11 He answered and said: The man that is called Jesus, made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me: Go to the pool Siloe, and wash. I went and washed and received my sight." 
John9:12 They said unto him: where is he? He said: I cannot tell. 
John9:13 Then brought they to the pharisees, him that a little before was blind." 
John9:14 ( (for) It was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.)" 
John9:15 Then again the pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them: He put clay upon mine eyes; And I washed, and I(do) see." 
John9:16 Then said some of the pharisees: this man is not of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath day. Other said: how can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was strife among them." 
John9:17 Then spake they unto the blind again: What sayest thou of him, because he hath opened thine eyes? And he said: He is a prophet." 
John9:18 (But) The jews did not believe of the fellow, how that he was blind, and received his sight: until they had called the father and mother of him that had received his sight." 
John9:19 And they asked them saying: Is this your son, whom ye say was born blind? How doth he now see then?" 
John9:20 His father and mother answered them and said: we wot well that this is our son, and that he was born blind:" 
John9:21 But by what means he now seeth, that can we not tell or who hath opened his eyes can we not tell. He is old enough, ask him, let him answer for himself, of things that pertain to himself." 
John9:22 Such words spake his father, and mother, because they feared the jews, for the jews had conspired already that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be excommunicate out of the Synagogue." 
John9:23 Therefore said his father and mother: he is old enough, ask him." 
John9:24 Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him: Give God the praise, we know that this man is a sinner." 
John9:25 He answered and said: Whether he be a sinner or no, I cannot tell: One thing I am sure of, that I was blind, and now I see." 
John9:26 Then said they to him again: What did he to thee? How opened he thine eyes? 
John9:27 He answered them, I told you yer-while; And ye did not hear. Wherefore would ye hear it again? Will ye also be his disciples?" 
John9:28 Then rated they him, and said: Thou art his disciple. We are(be) Moses' disciples." 
John9:29 We are sure that God spake with Moses. This fellow we know not from whence he is. 
John9:30 The man answered, and said unto them: this is a marvelous thing that ye wot nere(not) whence he is, and yet hath(seeing) he opened mine eyes." 
John9:31 We know well enough(For we be sure) that God heareth no(not) sinners: But if any man be a worshipper of God: and do what his will is, him heareth he." 
John9:32 Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. 
John9:33 If this man were not of God, he could have done no thing." 
John9:34 They answered and said unto him: thou art altogether born in sin: and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. 
John9:35 Jesus heard that they had excommunicated him: and as soon as he had found him he said unto him: dost thou believe on the son of God? 
John9:36 He answered and said: And who is it Lord, that I might believe on him?" 
John9:37 And Jesus said unto him: Thou hast seen him, and he it is that talketh with thee." 
John9:38 And he said: Lord I believe: And worshipped him. 
John9:39 Jesus said: I am come unto judgement, into this world: that they which see not, might see, and they which see might be made blind." 
John9:40 And some of the pharisees which were with him, heard these words and said unto him: Are we then blind?" 
John9:41 Jesus said unto them, if ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say we see, therefore your sin remaineth." 
John10:1 Verily, verily I say unto you: Whosoever(He that) entereth not in by the door, into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way: he(the same) is a thief and a robber." 
John10:2 He that goeth in by the door, is the shepherd of the sheep." 
John10:3 To this man(to him) the porter openeth the door, and the sheep hear his voice; And he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out," 
John10:4 and when he hath sent forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: For they know his voice." 
John10:5 A stranger they will not follow, but will fly from him. For they know not the voice of strangers." 
John10:6 This manner of saying(similitude)(proverb) spake Jesus unto them. And(But) they understood not, what things they were, which he spake unto them." 
John10:7 Then said Jesus unto them again: Verily, verily I say unto you: that I am the door of the sheep." 
John10:8 All even as many as came before me, are thieves and robbers:(murthurers) but the sheep did not hear them." 
John10:9 I am the door: by me, if any man enter in, he shall be safe, and shall go in and out, and find pasture." 
John10:10 The thief cometh not but for to steal and kill, and destroy. I am come that they might have life, and have it more abundantly." 
John10:11 I am a(the) good(amagoode) shepherd, a(The) good shepherd giveth his life for his(the) sheep." 
John10:12 An hired servant which is not the shepherd, neither the sheep are his own, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and flyeth, and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep." 
John10:13 The hired servant flyeth because he is an hired servant, and careth not for the sheep." 
John10:14 I am that good shepherd, and know my sheep,(mine) and am known of mine." 
John10:15 As my father knoweth me: even so know I my father. And I give my life for my(the) sheep," 
John10:16 and other sheep I have, which are not of this fold. Them also must I bring, that they shall(may) hear my voice. And (that) there shall(may) be one flock, and one shepherd." 
John10:17 Therefore doth my father love me, because I put my life from me, that I might take it again." 
John10:18 No man taketh it from me: but I put it away of myself. I have power to put it from me, and power I have to take it again. This commandment have I received of my father." 
John10:19 Again(And) there was (a) dissension among the jews for these sayings," 
John10:20 and many of them said: He hath the devil, and is mad: why hear ye him?" 
John10:21 other said, these are not the words of him that hath the devil: Can the devil open the eyes of the blind?" 
John10:22 (And) It was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was the winter:" 
John10:23 And Jesus walked in Solomon's hall.(porch.) 
John10:24 Then came the jews round about him, and said unto him: How long dost thou make us doubt? If thou be Christ, tell us plainly." 
John10:25 Jesus answered them: I told you and ye believe not: The works that I do in my father's name, (they) bear witness of me:" 
John10:26 but ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep. As I said unto you:" 
John10:27 my sheep, hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me," 
John10:28 and I give unto them eternal(everlasting) life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand." 
John10:29 My father which gave them me, is greater than all men, and no man is able to take them out of my father's hand." 
John10:30 And I and my father are one. 
John10:31 Then the jews again took up stones, to stone him withal." 
John10:32 Jesus answered them: many good works have I shewed you from my father: for which of them will ye stone me? 
John10:33 The jews answered him saying: For thy good works' sake we stone thee not: but for thy blasphemy, and because that thou being a man, makest thyself God." 
John10:34 Jesus answered them: Is it not written in your law: I have said,(say) ye are gods?" 
John10:35 If he called them gods unto whom the word of God was spoken (and the scripture cannot be broken) 
John10:36 say ye then to him, whom the father hath sanctified, and sent into the world: Thou blasphemest, because I said I am the son of God?" 
John10:37 If I do not the works of my father, believe me not." 
John10:38 But (if I do) though ye believe not me, yet believe the works, that ye may know and believe that the father is in me, and I in him.(the father)" 
John10:39 Again they went about to take him, but he escaped out of their hands," 
John10:40 and went away again beyond Jordan, into the place where John before had baptised, and there abode." 
John10:41 And many resorted unto him, and said: John did no miracle: But all things that John spake of this man are true.." 
John10:42 And there many believed on him there. 
John11:1 A certain man was sick, named Lazarus of Bethania the town of Mary and her sister Martha." 
John11:2 It was that Mary which anointed Jesus with ointment, and wept(wiped) his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick," 
John11:3 and his sister(sisters) sent unto him saying: Lord behold, he whom thou lovest is sick." 
John11:4 When Jesus that heard he said: this infirmity(sickness) is not unto death: But for the laud(praise) of God, that the son of God might be praised by the reason of it." 
John11:5 Jesus loved Martha and her sister, and Lazarus." 
John11:6 After he heard that he was sick, then abode he two days still in the same place where he was." 
John11:7 Then after that said he to his disciples: let us go into Jewry again. 
John11:8 His disciples said unto him: Master, the jews lately sought means to stone thee, and wilt thou go thither again?" 
John11:9 Jesus answered: are there not twelve hours in the day? If a man walk in the day he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world." 
John11:10 (But) If a man walk in the night he stumbleth, because there is no light in him." 
John11:11 This said he. And after that he said unto them: our friend Lazarus sleepeth, but I go to wake him out of sleep." 
John11:12 Then said his disciples: Lord if he sleep, then shall he do well enough." 
John11:13 (Howbeit) Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken of the natural sleep. 
John11:14 Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead," 
John11:15 and I am glad for your sakes, that I was not there, because ye may believe. Nevertheless let us go unto him." 
John11:16 Then said Thomas (which is called Didymus,) unto the disciples: let us also go, that we may die with him." 
John11:17 Then went Jesus, and found, that he had lain in his grave four days already." 
John11:18 Bethanie was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off;" 
John11:19 And many of the jews came(were come) to Martha and Mary, to comfort them over their brother." 
John11:20 Martha as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him. (But) Mary sat still at home.(in the house.)" 
John11:21 Then said Martha unto Jesus: Lord if thou hadst been here, my brother had not been dead:" 
John11:22 but nevertheless, I know that whatsoever thou askest of God, God will give it thee." 
John11:23 Jesus said unto her: Thy brother shall rise again. 
John11:24 Martha said unto him: I know well,(that) he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day." 
John11:25 Jesus said unto her: I am the resurrection and the life. Whosoever(He that) believeth on me; Yea though he were dead, yet shall he live:" 
John11:26 and whosoever liveth, and believeth on me, shall never die. Believest thou this?" 
John11:27 She said unto him: yea Lord: I believe that thou art Christ the son of God, which shall(should) come into the world." 
John11:28 And as soon as she had so said she went her way, and called Mary her sister secretly saying: The master is come and calleth for thee." 
John11:29 (And) She as soon as she heard that, arose quickly, and came unto him." 
John11:30 Jesus was not yet come into the town: but was in the place where Martha met him. 
John11:31 The jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her (when they saw Mary that she rose up hastily, and went out) followed her saying: She goeth unto the grave, to weep there." 
John11:32 Then when Mary was come, where Jesus was and saw him she fell down at his feet, saying unto him: Lord if thou hadst been here, my brother had not been dead." 
John11:33 When Jesus saw her weep, and the jews also weep, which came with her. He groaned in the spirit, and vexed(was troubled in) himself" 
John11:34 and said: Where have ye laid him? They said unto him: Lord come and see. 
John11:35 And Jesus wept. 
John11:36 Then said the jews: Behold how he loved him. 
John11:37 (And) Some of them said: Could not he which opened the eyes of the blind, have made also, that this man should not have died?" 
John11:38 Jesus again groaned in himself (and) came to the grave, it was a cave, and a stone laid on it." 
John11:39 (And) Jesus said: Take ye away the stone. Martha (the sister of him that was dead) said unto him: Lord by this time he stinketh. For he hath been dead four days. 
John11:40 Jesus said unto her: Said I not unto thee, that if thou didst believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God." 
John11:41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. (And) Jesus lift up his eyes and said: Father I give thee thanks(thank thee) because that thou hast heard me; 
John11:42 I knew well(wot) that thou hearest me always:(all ways:) but because of the people that stand by I said it, that they might(may) believe, that thou hast sent me." 
John11:43 And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus come forth," 
John11:44 and he that was dead, came forth bound hand and foot, with (grave) bonds after the manner as they were wont to bind their dead withall. And his face was bound with a napkin. Jesus said unto them: loose him, and let him go." 
John11:45 Then many of the jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him." 
John11:46 But some of them went their ways to the pharisees, and told them what Jesus had done." 
John11:47 Then gathered the high priests and the pharisees a council and said: what do we? This man doeth many miracles.(tokens) 
John11:48 If we let him scape thus all men will believe on him. And the romans shall come and take away our country and (the) people. 
John11:49 And one of them named Caiphas: which was the high priest that same year, said unto them: Ye perceive nothing at all" 
John11:50 nor yet consider that it is expedient for us, that one man die for the people, and not that all the people perish." 
John11:51 This spake he not of himself: but being high priest that same year, prophesied he that Jesus should die for the people," 
John11:52 and not for the people only: but that he should gather together in one the children of God which were scattered abroad. 
John11:53 From that day kept(forth) they (held) a counsel together for to put him to death. 
John11:54 Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the jews: but went his way thence unto a country nigh to a wilderness into a city called Ephraim, and there haunted with his disciples." 
John11:55 (And) The jews' ester was nigh at hand, and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the ester to purify themselves." 
John11:56 Then sought they for Jesus, and spake between themselves as they stood in the temple: What think ye, seeing he cometh not to the feast." 
John11:57 The high priests and pharisees had given a commandment that if any man knew where he were, he should shew it that they might take him." 
John12:1 Then Jesus before six days of ester,(six days before ester) came to Bethany where Lazarus (which was dead) was, whom Jesus raised from death." 
John12:2 There they made him a supper, and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him." 
John12:3 Then took Mary a pound of ointment called nardus, perfect and precious,(costly) and anointed Jesus' feet, and wept(wiped) his feet with her hair, and all the house smelled(was filled) of the savour of the ointment." 
John12:4 Then said one of his disciples named Judas Iscarioth, Simon's son, which afterward betrayed him:" 
John12:5 why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor?" 
John12:6 This said he, not that he cared for the poor: but because he was a thief, and kept the bag, and bare that which was given." 
John12:7 Then said Jesus: Let her alone, against the day of my burying she kept it." 
John12:8 The poor always(all ways) shall ye have with you, but me shall ye not always(all ways) have." 
John12:9 Much people of the jews had knowledge that he was there. And they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also whom he raised from death." 
John12:10 The high priests therefore held a council that they might put Lazarus to death also," 
John12:11 because that for his sake many of the jews went away, and believed on Jesus." 
John12:12 On the morrow much people that were come to the feast (when they heard that Jesus should come to Jerusalem,)" 
John12:13 took branches of palm trees and went and met him, and cried: Hosanna, blessed is he that in the name of the Lord cometh, King of Israel." 
John12:14 (And) Jesus got a young ass and sat thereon, according to that which was written:" 
John12:15 fear not daughter of Sion: behold thy King cometh sitting on an ass's colt. 
John12:16 These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that such things were written of him, and that such things they had done unto him." 
John12:17 The people that was with him, when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from death, bare record.(commended the act)" 
John12:18 Therefore met him the people, because they heard that he had done such a miracle." 
John12:19 The pharisees therefore said among themselves: Ye see that(perceive ye how) we prevail nothing: lo all the(behold all the whole) world goeth away after him. 
John12:20 There were certain greeks among them, which(that) came to pray(worship) at the feast," 
John12:21 the same came to Philip which was of Bethsaida a city in Galilee, and desired(prayed) him saying: Sir we would fain see Jesus." 
John12:22 Philip came and told Andrew. And again Andrew and Philip told Jesus. 
John12:23 And Jesus answered them saying: the hour is come that the son of man must be glorified. 
John12:24 Verily, verily I say unto you, except the wheat corn fall into the ground and die, it bideth alone. If it die, it bringeth forth much fruit." 
John12:25 He that loveth his life shall destroy it: And he that hateth his life in this world, shall keep it unto life eternal.(everlasting)" 
John12:26 If any man minister(serve) unto me, let him follow me and where I am there shall also my minister(servant) be. And if any man minister unto(serveth) me, him will my father honour." 
John12:27 Now is my soul troubled,(heavy) and what shall I say? Father deliver me from(help me out of) this hour: but therefore came I unto this hour." 
John12:28 Father glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, I have glorified it, and will glorify it again." 
John12:29 Then said the people that stood by and heard, it thundereth. Other said: an angel spake to him." 
John12:30 Jesus answered and said: this voice came not because of me: but for your sakes. 
John12:31 Now is the judgement of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out a doors.(thrust out) 
John12:32 And I (if were lifted up from the earth,) will draw all men unto me." 
John12:33 This said Jesus signifying what death he should die. 
John12:34 The people answered him: We have heard (out) of the law that Christ bideth(endureth for) ever: and how sayest thou then that the son of man must be lifted up? who is that son of man? 
John12:35 Then Jesus said unto them: yet a little while is the light with you: walk while ye have light, lest the darkness come on you. He that walketh in the dark, wotteth not whither he goeth." 
John12:36 While ye have light, believe on the light that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus and departed, and hid himself from them." 
John12:37 And though he had done so many miracles(tokens) before them, yet believed not they on him," 
John12:38 that the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, that he spake. Lord who shall believe our saying?(preaching) And to whom is the arm of the Lord declared?(opened?)" 
John12:39 Therefore could they not believe, because that Esaias saith again:" 
John12:40 He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their hearts, that they should not see with their eyes, and understand with their hearts, and should be converted and I should heal them." 
John12:41 Such things said Esaias when he saw his glory, and spake of him." 
John12:42 Nevertheless among the chief rulers many believed on him, but because of the pharisees they would not be a known of it, lest they should be excommunicated." 
John12:43 For they loved the praise that is given of men, more than the praise, that cometh of God." 
John12:44 (And) Jesus cried and said: he that believeth on me believeth not on me, but on him that sent me." 
John12:45 And he that seeth me, seeth him that sent me." 
John12:46 I am come a light into the world that whosoever believeth on me should not bide in darkness," 
John12:47 and if any man hear my words and believe not, I judge him not. For I came not to judge the world: but to save the world." 
John12:48 He that putteth(refuseth) me away, and receiveth not my words, hath one (allready) that judgeth him. The words that I have spoken(,they) shall judge him in the last day." 
John12:49 For I have not spoken of myself: but the father which sent me(,he) gave me a commandment what I should say, and what I should speak." 
John12:50 And I know well that his commandment is life everlasting. Whatsoever I speak therefore, even as my(the) father bade me, so I speak." 
John13:1 Before the feast of ester when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the father. When he loved his which were in the world, unto the end he loved them." 
John13:2 And when supper was ended, after that the devil had put in the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son, to betray him." 
John13:3 Jesus knowing that the father had given all things into his hands: And that he was come from God, and went to God," 
John13:4 he rose from supper, and laid aside his upper garments, and took a towel, and gird himself." 
John13:5 After that poured he water into a basin, and began to wash his disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel, wherewith he was gird." 
John13:6 Then came he to Simon Peter. And Peter said to him: Lord shalt thou wash my feet? 
John13:7 Jesus answered and said unto him: what I do thou wettest not now, (but) thou shalt know here after." 
John13:8 Peter said unto him: Thou shalt not wash my feet while the world standeth. Jesus answered him: if I wash not thy feet,(thee not) thou shalt have no part with me." 
John13:9 Simon Peter said unto him: Lord not my feet only: but also my hands and my head. 
John13:10 Jesus said to him: he that is washed, needeth not but(save) to wash his feet, but(and) is clean every whit. And ye are clean: but not all." 
John13:11 For he knew his betrayer. Therefore said he: ye are not all clean. 
John13:12 After he had washed their feet, and received his clothes, and was set down again, he said unto them: wot(know) ye what I have done to you?" 
John13:13 ye call me master and Lord, and ye say well, for so am I." 
John13:14 If I then your Lord and master have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet." 
John13:15 For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you." 
John13:16 Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his master.(lord) Neither the messenger(apostle) greater than he that sent him." 
John13:17 If ye understand(know) these things, happy(blessed) are ye if ye do them." 
John13:18 I speak not of you all, I know whom I have chosen. But that the scripture be fulfilled: he that eateth bread with me; Hath lifted up his heel against me." 
John13:19 Now tell I you before it come: that when it is come to pass ye might believe that I am he. 
John13:20 Verily, verily I say unto you. He that receiveth whomsoever I send, receiveth me. And he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me." 
John13:21 When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in the spirit, and testified saying: verily, verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me." 
John13:22 (And) Then the disciples looked one on another doubting of whom he spake. 
John13:23 There was one of his disciples which leaned on Jesus' bosom, whom Jesus loved." 
John13:24 To him beckoned Simon Peter that he should ask who it was of whom he spake. 
John13:25 He then as he leaned on Jesus' breast said unto him: Lord who is it? 
John13:26 Jesus answered, he it is to whom I give a sop, when I have dept(dipped) it. And he wet a sop, and gave it to Judas Iscarioth Simon's son." 
John13:27 And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him: that thou dost do quickly. 
John13:28 That wist no man at the table, for what intent he spake unto him." 
John13:29 Some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, buy those things that we have need of(buy that is necessary for us) against the feast: or that he should give something to the poor." 
John13:30 As soon then as he had received the sop, he went immediately out. And it was night." 
John13:31 When he was gone out, Jesus said: now is the son of man glorified. And God is glorified by him." 
John13:32 If God be glorified by him, God shall also glorify him, in himself: and shall straightway glorify him." 
John13:33 Dear children, yet a little while am I with you. Ye shall seek me, and as I said unto the jews whither I go, thither can ye not come. Also to you say I now." 
John13:34 A new commandment give I unto you, that ye love together, as I have loved you, that even so ye love one another." 
John13:35 By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye shall have love one to another." 
John13:36 Simon Peter said unto him: Lord whither goest thou? Jesus answered him: whither I go thou canst not follow me now, (but) thou shalt follow me afterwards." 
John13:37 Peter said unto him Lord why cannot I follow thee now? I will give my life for thy sake. 
John13:38 Jesus answered him: Wilt thou give thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow, till thou have denied me thrice." 
John14:1 And he said unto his disciples: Let not your hearts be troubled,(afraid) believe in God, and believe in me." 
John14:2 In my father's house are many mansions.(dwellings) If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you." 
John14:3 (And if I go to prepare a place for you,) I will come again, and receive you even unto myself, that where I am, there may ye be also." 
John14:4 And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know." 
John14:5 Thomas said unto him: Lord we know not whither thou goest. Also how is it possible for us to know the way? 
John14:6 Jesus said unto him I am the way, the verity,(truth) and (the) life. (And) No man cometh unto the father, but by me." 
John14:7 If ye had known me ye had known my father also. And now ye know him. And ye have seen him. 
John14:8 Philip said unto him: Lord shew us thy(the) father and it sufficeth us. 
John14:9 Jesus said unto him: have I been so long time with you: and yet hast thou not known me? Philip, he that hath seen me, hath seen the father. And how sayest thou then: shew us the father?" 
John14:10 Believest thou not that I am in the father, and the father in me? The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself: but the father dwelling(that dwelleth) in me is he that doeth the works." 
John14:11 Believe (me) that I am in the father, and the father in me. At the least believe me for the very works' sake." 
John14:12 Verily, verily I say unto you whosoever(he that) believeth on me, the works that I do, the same shall he do, and greater works then these shall he do, because I go unto my father." 
John14:13 And whatsoever ye ask in my name, that will I do, that the father might be glorified by(may be praised in) the son." 
John14:14 If ye shall ask any thing in my name I will do it. 
John14:15 If ye love me keep my commandments," 
John14:16 and I will pray the father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may bide with you ever," 
John14:17 which is the spirit of truth whom the world cannot receive, because the world seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know him. For he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you." 
John14:18 I will not leave you comfortless: I(but) will come unto(to) you. 
John14:19 It is yet a little while and the world seeth me no more: but ye shall see me. For I live, and ye shall live.(live also)" 
John14:20 That day shall ye know that I am in my father, and my father(you) in me, and I in you." 
John14:21 He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, the same is he that loveth me, and he that loveth me (.And he) shall be loved of my father, and I will love him, and will shew mine own self unto him." 
John14:22 Judas said unto him (not Judas Iscarioth) Lord what is the cause that thou wilt shew thyself unto us, and not unto the world?" 
John14:23 Jesus answered and said unto him: if a man love me and will keep my sayings, my father also will love him, and we will come unto him, and will dwell with him." 
John14:24 He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings. And the words which ye hear are not mine, but my(the) father's, which sent me." 
John14:25 This have I spoken unto you being yet present with you. 
John14:26 But that comforter which is the holy ghost (whom my father will send in my name) (he) shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have told you." 
John14:27 Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your hearts be grieved, neither fear ye." 
John14:28 Ye have heard how I said unto you: I go and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would verily rejoice, because I said, I go unto the father. For the father is greater than I." 
John14:29 And now have I shewed you, before it come, that when it is come to pass, ye might believe." 
John14:30 Here after will I not talk many words unto you. For the chief ruler of this world cometh, and hath nought in me." 
John14:31 But that the world may know that I love my(the) father; And(Therefore) as the father gave me commandment, even so do I. Rise let us go hence." 
John15:1 I am the true vine, and my father is an husbandman." 
John15:2 Every branch that beareth not fruit in me; He will take away. And every branch that beareth fruit will he purge that it may bring more fruit. 
John15:3 Now are ye clean, be that means of(thorow) the words which(because of the word that) I have spoken unto you." 
John15:4 Bide in me, and I(let me bide) in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it bide in the vine: no more can ye except ye abide in me." 
John15:5 I am the vine, and ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me can ye do nothing." 
John15:6 If a man bide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered: and men gather them,(it) and cast them(it) into the fire, and they(it) burneth." 
John15:7 If ye bide in me, and my words also bide in you: ask what ye will, and it shall be given(done to) you." 
John15:8 Here in is my father glorified,(praised) that ye bear much fruit, and be made my disciples." 
John15:9 As the father hath loved me, even so have I loved you. Continue in my love." 
John15:10 If ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall bide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments, and bide in his love." 
John15:11 These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full." 
John15:12 This is my commandment, that ye love together as I have loved you." 
John15:13 Greater love than this hath no man, than that a man bestow his life for his friends." 
John15:14 Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you." 
John15:15 Henceforth call I you not servants: For the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth. But you have I called friends: For all things that I have heard of my father, I have opened to you." 
John15:16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye go, and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit remain, that whatsoever ye shall ask of my(the) father in my name he should give it you." 
John15:17 This command I you, that ye love together." 
John15:18 If the world hate you, ye know that he hated me before he hated you." 
John15:19 If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. (Howbeit) Because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore hateth you the world." 
John15:20 Remember the saying,(my word) that I said unto you: the servant is not greater than the lord. If they have persecuted me, so will they persecute you. If they have kept my saying,(word) so will they keep yours." 
John15:21 But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they have not known him that sent me." 
John15:22 If I had not come and spoken unto them, they should have no sin:(not have had sin:) but now have they nothing to cloak their sin withal." 
John15:23 He that hateth me, hateth my father." 
John15:24 If I had not done works among them which none other man did, they should be without(had not had) sin. But now have they seen, and yet have hated both me and my father:" 
John15:25 Even that the saying might be fulfilled that is written in their law: they hated me without a cause. 
John15:26 But when the comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the father, which is the spirit of verity,(truth) which proceedeth of the father, he shall testify of me." 
John15:27 And ye shall bear witness also, because ye have been with me from the beginning." 
John16:1 These things have I said unto you be cause ye should not be hurt in your faith.(because ye should not be offended.) 
John16:2 They shall excommunicate you: yea the time shall come, that whosoever killeth you, will think that he doth God true service." 
John16:3 And such things will they do unto you, because they have not known the father neither yet me." 
John16:4 (But) These things have I told you, that when that hour is come, ye might remember then, that I told you so. These things said I not unto you at the beginning, because I was present with you." 
John16:5 But now go I my way to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me: whither goest thou?" 
John16:6 but because I have said such things unto you, your hearts are full of sorrow." 
John16:7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth it is expedient(better) for you that I go away. For if I go not away, that comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you." 
John16:8 And when he is come, he will rebuke the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgement." 
John16:9 Of sin, because they believe not on me:" 
John16:10 Of righteousness, because I go to my father, and ye shall see me no more:" 
John16:11 And of judgement, because the chief ruler of this world, is judged all ready." 
John16:12 I have yet many things to say unto you: but ye cannot bear them away now. 
John16:13 (Howbeit) When he is once come (I mean the spirit of verity,)(truth) he will lead you into all truth. He shall not speak of himself: but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will shew you things to come." 
John16:14 He shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew unto you." 
John16:15 All things that my(the) father hath are mine. Therefore said I unto you that he shall take of mine and shew unto you. 
John16:16 After a while ye shall not see me, and again after a while ye shall see me: For I go to my(the) father." 
John16:17 Then said some of his disciples between(among) themselves: what is this that he saith unto us, after a while ye shall not see me, and again after a while ye shall see me: and that I go to my(the) father." 
John16:18 They said therefore: what is this that he saith after a while? we cannot tell what he saith. 
John16:19 Jesus perceived, that they would ask him, and said unto them: This is it that ye enquire of between yourselves, that I said, after a while ye shall not see me, and again after a while ye shall see me." 
John16:20 Verily, verily I say unto you: ye shall weep and lament, and the world shall rejoice. Ye shall sorrow: but your sorrow shall be turned to joy." 
John16:21 A woman when she travaileth hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of her(the) child she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world." 
John16:22 And ye now are in sorrow: but I will see you again, and your hearts shall rejoice, and your joy shall no man take from you." 
John16:23 And in that day shall ye ask me no question. Verily, verily I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask the father in my name, he will give it you." 
John16:24 Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name. Ask and ye shall receive it: that your joy may be full.(that our joy may be full) 
John16:25 These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs. The time will come when I shall no more speak to you in proverbs: but I shall shew you plainly from my father. 
John16:26 At that day shall ye ask in mine name. And I say not unto you that I will speak unto my father for you. 
John16:27 For my(the) father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God." 
John16:28 I went out from the father, and came into the world: and I leave the world again, and go to the father." 
John16:29 His disciples said unto him: lo now speakest thou plainly, and thou usest no proverb." 
John16:30 Now know we that thou understandest(knowest) all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee any question. Therefore believe we that thou camest from God." 
John16:31 Jesus answered them: Now ye do believe. 
John16:32 Behold the hour draweth nigh, and is already come, that ye shall be scattered every man his ways, and shall leave me alone. And yet am I not alone. For my(the) father is with me." 
John16:33 These words have I spoken unto you that in me ye might have peace.(For) In the world shall ye have tribulation:(trouble) but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world." 
John17:1 These words spake Jesus and lift(lifted) up his eyes to heaven, and said: father the hour is come glorify thy son that thy son may glorify thee." 
John17:2 As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him." 
John17:3 This is life eternal(everlasting) that they might know thee that only very God:(that thou onely art the true God) and whom thou hast sent Jesus Christ. 
John17:4 I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. 
John17:5 And now glorify me thou father in(with) thine own presence,(self) with the glory which I had with thee yer(yerre) the world was." 
John17:6 I have declared thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy sayings.(word)" 
John17:7 Now have they known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me, are of thee." 
John17:8 For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they have received them, and know surely that I came out from thee: and do believe that thou didst send me." 
John17:9 I pray for them.(,and) I pray not for the world: but for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine," 
John17:10 and all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them." 
John17:11 And now am I no more in the world, but they are in the world, and I come to thee. Wholly(Holy) father keep in thine own name them which thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are." 
John17:12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me, have I kept, and none of them is lost, but that lost child, that the scripture might be fulfilled." 
John17:13 Now come I to thee, and these words speak I in the world, that they might have my joy full in them." 
John17:14 I have given them thy doctrine,(words) and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world." 
John17:15 I desire(pray) not that thou shouldest take them out of the world: but that thou keep them from evil. 
John17:16 They are not of the world, as I am not of the world." 
John17:17 Sanctify them in thy truth.(with thy trueth) Thy saying is verity.(trueth.)(Thy word is the trueth) 
John17:18 As thou didst sent me into the world, even so have I sent them into the world;" 
John17:19 And for their sakes sanctify I myself, that they also might be sanctified thorow the truth." 
John17:20 I pray not for them alone: but for them also which shall believe on me thorow their preaching,(through their word shall believe on me)" 
John17:21 that they all may be one, as thou father art in me, and I in thee, that they may be also one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me." 
John17:22 And that glory that thou gavest me, I have given them, that they may be one, as we are one." 
John17:23 I am in them and thou art in me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me." 
John17:24 Father I will that they which thou hast given me, be with me where I am, that they may see my glory which thou hast given me. For thou lovedest me before the making of the world." 
John17:25 O righteous father the very world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me." 
John17:26 And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it, that the love wherewith thou hast loved me, be in them, and that I be in them." 
John18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden into the which he entered with his disciples." 
John18:2 (Judas also which betrayed him knew the place, for Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples.)" 
John18:3 Judas then after he had received a bond of men, and ministers of the high priests, and of the pharisees came thither with lanterns, and firebrands, and weapons." 
John18:4 Then Jesus knowing all things that should come on him, went forth and said unto them: whom seek ye?" 
John18:5 They answered him: Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said unto them: I am he. Judas also which betrayed him, stood with them." 
John18:6 (But) As soon as he had said unto them I am he, they went backwards and fell to the ground." 
John18:7 And he asked them again: whom seek ye? They said: Jesus of Nazareth. 
John18:8 Jesus answered, I said unto you, I am he. If ye seek me, let these go their way." 
John18:9 That the saying might be fulfilled which he spake: of them which thou gavest (me,) have I not lost one." 
John18:10 Simon Peter had a sword, and drew him out,(it) and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus." 
John18:11 Then said Jesus unto Peter: put up thy sword into the sheath: shall I not drink of the cup which my father had(hath) given me? 
John18:12 Then the company, and the Captain, and the ministers(officers) of the jews, took Jesus and bound him," 
John18:13 and led him away to Anna first: For he was father-in-law unto Caiphas, which was the high priest that same year." 
John18:14 Caiphas was he that gave counsel to the jews that it was expedient(it were good) that one man should die for the people. 
John18:15 (And) Simon Peter followed Jesus, and another disciple, that disciple was known of the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest." 
John18:16 But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple which was known unto the high priest, and spake to the damsel that kept the door, and brought in Peter." 
John18:17 Then said the damsel that kept the door unto Peter: Art not thou one of this man's disciples? He said: I am not. 
John18:18 The servants and the ministers(officers) stood there, and had made a fire of coals. For it was cold, and they warmed themselves. Peter also stood among them and warmed himself." 
John18:19 The high priest asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine." 
John18:20 Jesus answered him: I spake openly in the world. I ever taught in the synagogue and in the temple whither all the jews resorted: and in secret have I said nothing: 
John18:21 why askest thou me? Ask them which heard me what I said unto them. Behold they can tell what I said. 
John18:22 When he had thus spoken, one of the ministers which stood by, smote Jesus on the face saying: Answerest thou the high priest so?" 
John18:23 Jesus answered him: If I have evil spoken, bear witness of the evil: if I have well spoken, why smitest thou me?" 
John18:24 (And) Annas sent him bound unto Caiphas the high priest. 
John18:25 Simon Peter stood and warmed himself, and they said unto him: Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said: I am not." 
John18:26 One of the servants of the high priest (his cousin whose ear Peter smote off ) said unto him: did not I see thee in the garden with him? 
John18:27 Peter denied it again: and immediately the cock crew. 
John18:28 Then led they Jesus from Caiphas into the hall of judgement.(common hall) It was in the morning, and they themselves went not into the judgement house(hall) lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat Pascha.(the paschal lamb.)" 
John18:29 Pilate then went out unto them and said: What accusation bring ye against this man? 
John18:30 They answered and said unto him: If he were not an evil doer, we would not have delivered him unto thee." 
John18:31 Then said Pilate unto them: take(ye) him unto you, and judge him after your own law. (Then) The jews said unto him. It is not lawful for us to put any man to death." 
John18:32 That the words of Jesus might be fulfilled which he spake, signifying what death he should die." 
John18:33 Then Pilate entered into the judgement house(hall) again, and called Jesus, and said unto him: Art thou (the) King of the Jews?" 
John18:34 Jesus answered: sayest thou that of thyself, or did other tell it thee of me?" 
John18:35 Pilate answered: Am I a jew? Thine own nation and high priests have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? 
John18:36 Jesus answered: my kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world then would my ministers surely fight, that I should not be delivered to the jews, but now is my kingdom not from hence." 
John18:37 Pilate said unto him: Art thou a King then? Jesus answered: Thou sayest that I am a King. For this cause was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto(testify) the truth. And all that are of the truth hear my voice." 
John18:38 Pilate said unto him: what is truth?(what thinge is trueth?) And when he had said that, he went out again unto the jews, and said unto them: I find in him no cause at all." 
John18:39 Ye have a custom among you, that I should deliver you one loose at ester. Will ye that I loose unto you the King of the Jews." 
John18:40 Then cried they all again saying: Not him, but Barabas. (:that) Barabas was a robber.(murthurer)" 
John19:1 Then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him. 
John19:2 And the soldiers wound a crown of thorns and put it on his head. And they did on him a purple garment, (and came unto him)" 
John19:3 and said: hail King of the Jews. And they smote him on the face. 
John19:4 Pilate went forth again, and said unto them: behold I bring him forth to you, that ye may know, that I find no fault in him." 
John19:5 Then came Jesus forth wearing a crown of thorns and a robe of purple. And Pilate said unto them: Behold the man. 
John19:6 When the high priests and ministers saw him, they cried saying: crucify him, crucify him. Pilate said unto them. Take ye him and crucify him: For I find no cause(no guiltiness) in him." 
John19:7 The jews answered him. We have a law, and by our law he ought to die: because he made himself the son of God." 
John19:8 When Pilate heard that saying, he was the more afraid," 
John19:9 and went again into the judgement house,(judgement hall) and said unto Jesus: whence art thou? (But) Jesus gave him none answer." 
John19:10 Then said Pilate unto him: Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to loose thee?" 
John19:11 Jesus answered: Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given unto thee from above. Therefore he that delivered me unto thee, is more in sin." 
John19:12 And from thenceforth sought Pilate means to loose him: but the jews cried saying: if thou let him go, thou art not Cesar's(the Emperour's) friend. (For) Whosoever maketh himself a King, is against Cesar.(the Emperour)" 
John19:13 When Pilate heard that saying he brought Jesus forth, and sat down to give sentence, in a place called the pavement: But in the Hebrew tongue, Gabbatha." 
John19:14 (It was the Sabbath even which falleth in(the day of preparing of) the ester feast, and about the sixth hour) And he said unto the jews: Behold your King." 
John19:15 They cried, away with him, away with him; Crucify him. Pilate said unto them: Shall I crucify your King? The high priests answered: We have no King but Cesar.(the Emperour)" 
John19:16 Then delivered he him unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him away." 
John19:17 And he bare his cross, and went forth into a place called the place of dead men's skulls (which is named in hebrew, Golgotha)" 
John19:18 where they crucified him. And with him two other, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst." 
John19:19 (And) Pilate wrote his title,(superscription) and put it on the cross: The writing was, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews." 
John19:20 This title(superscription) read many of the jews. For the place where Jesus was crucified, was nigh to the city. And it was written in hebrew, greek and latin." 
John19:21 Then said the high priests of the jews to Pilate: write not, King of the Jews, but that he said, I am King of the Jews." 
John19:22 Pilate answered: what I have written, that have I written." 
John19:23 (Then) The soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part, and also his coat. The coat was without seam woven(,wrought) upon thorow and thorow.(thorow out.)" 
John19:24 And they said one to another: Let us not divide it: but cast lots who shall have it. That the scripture might be fulfilled which saith. They parted my raiment among them, and on my coat did cast lots. And the soldiers did such things in deed." 
John19:25 There stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene." 
John19:26 When Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple standing whom he loved, he said unto his mother: Woman behold thy son." 
John19:27 Then said he to the disciple: behold thy mother. And from that hour the disciple took her for his own. 
John19:28 After that when Jesus perceived that all things were performed, that the scripture might be fulfilled: he said: I thirst." 
John19:29 There stood a vessel full of vinegar by. (And) They filled a sponge with vinegar, and wound it about with hyssop, and put it to his mouth." 
John19:30 As soon as Jesus had received of the vinegar, he said: It is finished, and bowed his head, and gave up the ghost." 
John19:31 The jews then because it was the Sabbath(the day of preparing) even that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day (For that Sabbath day was an high day) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken down. 
John19:32 Then came the soldiers and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with Jesus." 
John19:33 (But) When they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs:" 
John19:34 but one of the soldiers with a spear, thrust him into the side, and forthwith came there out blood and water." 
John19:35 And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true. And he knoweth that he saith true that ye might believe also." 
John19:36 These things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled: Ye shall not break a bone of him. 
John19:37 And again another scripture saith: They shall look on him, whom they pierced." 
John19:38 After that, Joseph of Arimathia (which was a disciple of Jesus: but secretly for fear of the jews) besought Pilate that he might take down the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him license. (he came therefore, and took the body of Iesus)" 
John19:39 And there came also Nicodemus which at the beginning came to Jesus by night, and brought of myrrh and aloes mingled together(to gether) about an hundred pound weight." 
John19:40 Then took they the body of Jesu and wound it in linen clothes with those confections(the odors) as the manner of the jews is to bury. 
John19:41 (And) In the place where Jesus was crucified, was a garden, and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was never man laid." 
John19:42 There laid they Jesus because of the jews' Sabbath even,(the preparing day of the Jews) for the sepulchre was nigh at hand." 
John20:1 The morrow after the Sabbath day came Mary Magdalene early when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and saw the stone rolled(taken) away from the tomb." 
John20:2 Then she ran, and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said unto them: They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb and we cannot tell where they have laid him." 
John20:3 Peter went forth and that other disciple, and came unto the sepulchre." 
John20:4 They ran both together,(to gether) and that other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre." 
John20:5 And he stooped down(and looked in) and saw the linen clothes,(lying) yet went he not in." 
John20:6 Then came Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and saw the linen clothes lie," 
John20:7 and the napkin that was about his head not lying with the linen cloth, but wrapped together in a place by itself." 
John20:8 Then went in also that other disciple which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed." 
John20:9 For as yet they knew not the scriptures, that he should rise again from death." 
John20:10 And the disciples went away again unto their own home. 
John20:11 Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: (And) As she wept, she bowed herself into the sepulchre" 
John20:12 and saw two angels clothed in white sitting the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where they had laid the body of Jesus." 
John20:13 (And) They said unto her: woman why weepest thou? She said unto them: (For) They have taken away my Lord, and I wot not where they have laid him." 
John20:14 When she had thus said, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus." 
John20:15 Jesus said unto her: woman why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She supposing(thought) that he had been the gardener, said unto him: Sir if thou have borne him hence tell me where thou hast laid him, that I will take him away.(that I may fetch him.)" 
John20:16 Jesus said unto her: Mary. She turned herself, and said unto him: Rabboni which is to say master." 
John20:17 Jesus said unto her: touch me not, for I have(am) not yet ascended to my father. But go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my father, and your father: (to) my God and your God." 
John20:18 Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken such things unto her." 
John20:19 The same day at night, which was the morrow after the Sabbath day, when the doors were shut (where the disciples were assembled together(to gedder) for fear of the jews,) came Jesus and stood in the midst, and said to them: peace be with you." 
John20:20 And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands and feet, and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord." 
John20:21 He(Then Iesus) said unto them again: peace be with you. As my father sent me, even so send I you." 
John20:22 And when he had said that, he blew(breathed) on them, and said unto them: Receive the holy ghost." 
John20:23 Whosoever's sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them: And whosoever's sins ye retain, they are retained." 
John20:24 (But) Thomas one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came." 
John20:25 The other disciples said unto him: we have seen the Lord. And he said unto them: except I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger in the holes of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe." 
John20:26 And after eight days again, his disciples were with in, and Thomas was with them. Jesus (then) came when the doors were shut, and stood in the midst and said: peace be with you:" 
John20:27 Than(After that) said he to Thomas: put in(bring) thy finger here,(hither) and see my hands, and put forth(bring) thy hand and thrust him(it) into my side, and be not without faith: but believe.(not faithless, but believing.)" 
John20:28 Thomas answered and said unto him: my Lord, and my God." 
John20:29 Jesus said unto him: Thomas, because thou hast seen me, therefore hast thou believed:(believest:) Happy(Blessed) are they that have not seen, and yet believe." 
John20:30 And many other signs(tokens) did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book." 
John20:31 These are written that ye might believe that Jesus is Christ the son of God. And that ye in believing ye might have life thorow his name. 
John21:1 After that Jesus shewed himself again at the sea of Tiberias. And on this wise shewed he himself. 
John21:2 There were together Simon Peter and Thomas, which is called Didymus: and Nathanael of Cana a city of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of the disciples;" 
John21:3 Simon Peter said unto them: I go a fishing. They said unto him: we also will go with thee. They went their way and entered into a ship straightway, and that night caught they nothing." 
John21:4 (But) When the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore; Nevertheless the disciples knew not that it was Jesus." 
John21:5 Jesus said unto them: Sirs, have ye any meat? They answered him no." 
John21:6 And he said unto them: cast out your(the) net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast out, and anon they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes." 
John21:7 Then said the disciple whom Jesus loved unto Peter: It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he gird(girded) his mantle to him (for he was naked) and sprang into the sea." 
John21:8 The other disciples came by ship: For they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits; And they drew the net with fishes." 
John21:9 As soon as they were come to land, they saw hot coals laid and fish laid thereon, and bread." 
John21:10 Jesus said unto them: bring of the fishes which ye have now caught. 
John21:11 Simon Peter stepped forth and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty three. And for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken." 
John21:12 Jesus said unto them: come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him: what art thou? For they knew that it was the Lord. 
John21:13 Jesus then came and took bread, and gave them, and fish likewise." 
John21:14 And this is now the third time that Jesus appeared to his disciples, after that he was risen again from death." 
John21:15 When they had dined, Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon Joanna, lovest thou me more than these? He said unto him: yea Lord, thou knowest, that I love thee. He said unto him: feed my lambs." 
John21:16 He said to him again the second time: Simon Joanna, lovest thou me? He said unto him: yea Lord thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto him: feed my sheep." 
John21:17 He said unto him the third time: Simon Joanna, lovest thou me? (And) Peter sorrowed because he said to him the third time, lovest thou me, and said unto him: Lord, thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus said unto him: feed my sheep." 
John21:18 Verily, verily I say unto thee, when thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou art old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and lead thee whither thou wouldest not." 
John21:19 That spake he signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had said thus, he said to him: Follow me." 
John21:20 Peter turned about, and saw that disciple whom Jesus loved following (which also leaned on his breast at supper) and said: Lord which is he that shall betray thee?" 
John21:21 When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus: Lord what shall he here do?" 
John21:22 Jesus said unto him: If I will have him to tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me." 
John21:23 Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die. And(Yet) Jesus said not to him, he shall not die: but if I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?" 
John21:24 The same disciple is he, which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things. And we know, that his testimony is true." 
John21:25 There are also many other things which Jesus did: the which if they should be written every one, I suppose the world could not contain the books that should be written. [Here endeth the Gospell off Sainct John.]" 
Acts1:1 In my first(the former) treatise (Dear friend Theophilus) I have written of all that Jesus began to do and teach," 
Acts1:2 until the day in the which he was taken up, after that he thorow the holy ghost, had given commandments unto the apostles, which he chose:(had chosen:)" 
Acts1:3 to whom also he shewed himself alive, after his passion by many tokens, appearing unto them forty days, and spake(speaking) of the kingdom of God," 
Acts1:4 and gathered them together, and commanded them, that they should not depart from Jerusalem: but to wait for the promise of the father, whereof ye have heard of me." 
Acts1:5 For John baptised with water but ye shall be baptised with the holy ghost, and that within this few days." 
Acts1:5 For John baptised with water but ye shall be baptised with the holy ghost, and that within this few days." 
Acts1:6 When they were come together, they asked of him, saying: Master(Lord) wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?" 
Acts1:7 (And) He said unto them: It is not for you to know the times, or the seasons which the father hath put in his own power:" 
Acts1:8 but ye shall receive power of the holy ghost which shall come on you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, and in all Jewry, and in Samary, and even unto the world's end.(end of the earth)" 
Acts1:9 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld he was taken up, and a cloud received him up out of their sight." 
Acts1:10 And as(while) they fastened their eyes in(looked steadfastly up to) heaven, as he went, lo(behold) two men stood by them in white clothing,(apparel)" 
Acts1:11 which also said: ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come, even as ye have seen him go into heaven." 
Acts1:12 Then returned they unto Jerusalem from mount Olivete, which is nigh to Jerusalem, containing a Sabbath day's journey." 
Acts1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into a parlour, where abode both Peter and James, John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartlemew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas James' son." 
Acts1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into a parlour, where abode both Peter and James, John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartlemew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas James' son." 
Acts1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into a parlour, where abode both Peter and James, John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartlemew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas James' son." 
Acts1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into a parlour, where abode both Peter and James, John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartlemew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas James' son." 
Acts1:14 These all continued with one accord, in prayer, and supplication with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesu. And with his brethren." 
Acts1:15 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples and said (The number of names were(that were to gether, were) about an hundred and twenty)" 
Acts1:16 Ye men and brethren, this scripture must(have) needs be(been) fulfilled which the holy ghost thorow the mouth of David spake before of Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus." 
Acts1:17 For he was now numbered with us and (had) obtained fellowship in this ministration. 
Acts1:18 And the same hath now possessed a plot of ground with the reward of iniquity.(unrighteousness) And when he was hanged, burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out." 
Acts1:19 And it is known unto all the inhabiters of Jerusalem. Insomuch that that field is called in their mother tongue, Acheldema, that is to say the blood field." 
Acts1:20 It is written in the book of psalms: His habitation be void, and no man be dwelling therein: and his bishoprick let another take." 
Acts1:21 Wherefore of these men which have companied with us (all the time that the Lord Jesus went out and in among us," 
Acts1:22 beginning at the baptism of John unto that same day that he was taken up from us) must one be ordained to be a(bear) witness with us of his resurrection. 
Acts1:22 beginning at the baptism of John unto that same day that he was taken up from us) must one be ordained to be a(bear) witness with us of his resurrection. 
Acts1:23 And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas (whose surname was Justus) and Matthias." 
Acts1:24 And they prayed saying: Thou Lord which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether thou hast chosen of these two," 
Acts1:25 that the one may take the room of this ministration, and apostleship from the which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place." 
Acts1:26 And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell on Mathias. And he was counted with the eleven apostles." 
Acts2:1 When the fiftieth day was come, they were all with one accord gathered together in one place." 
Acts2:2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as it had been the coming of a mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they sat." 
Acts2:3 And there appeared unto them cloven tongues, (like) as they had been fire, and it sat upon each of them:" 
Acts2:4 and they were all filled with the holy ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, even as the spirit gave them utterance." 
Acts2:5 (And) There were dwelling at Jerusalem jews, devout men, which were of all nations under heaven." 
Acts2:6 When this was noised about, the multitude came together(to gether) and were astonied, because that every man heard them speak his own tongue." 
Acts2:7 They wondered all, and marveled saying among themselves: Look,(Behold) are not all these which speak of Galilee?" 
Acts2:8 And how hear we every man his own tongue wherein we were born? 
Acts2:9 Parthians, Medes, and Elamites and the inhabiters of Mesopotamia, of Jury, (and of) Capadocia, (of) Ponthus, and of Asia;" 
Acts2:10 Phrigia, Pamphlia, and of Egypt, and of the parts of Libia, which is beside Syrene; And strangers of Rome;" 
Acts2:11 Jews and Proselytes,(converts) Greeks and Arabians: We have heard them speak with our own tongues the great works of God." 
Acts2:12 They were all amazed, and wondered saying one to another: what meaneth this?" 
Acts2:13 Other mocked them saying: They are full of new wine. 
Acts2:14 (But) Peter stepped forth with the eleven, and lift up his voice, and said unto them: Ye men of Jewry, and all ye that inhabit Jerusalem: be this known unto you, and with your ears hear my words.(let my words enter in at your ears)" 
Acts2:15 These are not drunken, as ye wene:(suppose:) For it is yet but the third hour of the day:" 
Acts2:16 but this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel: 
Acts2:17 It shall be in the last days (saith God) of my spirit I will pour out upon all flesh. And your sons, and your daughters shall prophesy, (and) your young men shall see visions. And your old men shall dream dreams." 
Acts2:18 And on my servants, and on my hand maidens I will pour out of my spirit in those days; And they shall prophesy." 
Acts2:19 And I will shew wonders in heaven above, and tokens in the earth beneath, blood and fire, and the vapour of smoke." 
Acts2:20 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great, and notable day of the Lord come." 
Acts2:21 And the time shall come(it shall be) that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord, shall be saved." 
Acts2:22 Ye men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you with miracles and wonders, and signs(tokens) which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves know:" 
Acts2:23 him have ye taken by the hands of unrighteous persons, after he was delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, and have crucified and slain him," 
Acts2:24 whom God hath raised up and loosed(lowsed) the sorrows of death, because it was impossible that he should be holden of it." 
Acts2:25 (For) David speaketh of him: Aforehand, saw I God always before me: For he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved." 
Acts2:26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad. Moreover also, my flesh shall rest in hope" 
Acts2:27 because thou shalt(wilt) not leave my soul in hell, neither shalt(wilt) suffer thy saint(thine holy) to see corruption." 
Acts2:28 Thou hast shewed me the ways of life; Thou(and) shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance. 
Acts2:29 Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David: For he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre remaineth with us unto his day." 
Acts2:30 Therefore since(seeing) he was a prophet, and knew that God had sworn(promised) with an oath to him, that the fruit of his loins should sit on his seat: (in that Christ should rise again in the flesh)" 
Acts2:31 He saw before, and spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul should not be left in hell: neither his flesh should see corruption." 
Acts2:32 This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses." 
Acts2:33 Since(Seeing) now that he by the right hand of God exalted is, and hath received of the father the promise of the holy ghost, he hath shed forth that (gift) which ye now see and hear." 
Acts2:34 For David is not ascended into heaven, but he said: The Lord said to my Lord sit on my right hand," 
Acts2:35 until I make thy foes,(thine enemies) thy foot stool." 
Acts2:36 So therefore let all the house of Israel know for a surety, that God hath made the same Jesus whom ye have crucified, Lord and Christ." 
Acts2:37 When they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts, and said unto Peter, and unto the other apostles: Ye men and brethren, what shall we do?" 
Acts2:38 Peter said unto them: Repent(Amend your selves) and be baptised every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ; For the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the holy ghost." 
Acts2:39 For the promise was made unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar, even as many as our(the) Lord God shall call." 
Acts2:40 And with many other words bare he witness, and exhorted them saying: Save yourselves from this untoward generation." 
Acts2:41 (Then) They that gladly received his preaching were baptised; And the same day, there were added unto them about a three thousand souls." 
Acts2:42 And they continued in the Apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayer." 
Acts2:43 And fear came over every soul. And many wonders and signs were shewed(done) by the apostles. (at Ierusalem. And great fear came upon all men) 
Acts2:44 And all that believed gathered then(kept themselves) together, and had all things common." 
Acts2:45 And sold their possessions and goods, and departed them to all men, as every man had need." 
Acts2:46 And they continued daily with one accord in the temple, and brake bread in every house, and ate(did eat) their meat together with gladness, and singleness of heart praising God," 
Acts2:47 and had favour with all the people, and the Lord added to the congregation daily them that(such as) should be saved." 
Acts3:1 Peter and John went up together into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer: 
Acts3:1 Peter and John went up together into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer: 
Acts3:2 And there was a certain man halt from his mother's womb, whom they brought and laid at the gate of the temple called beautiful, to ask his alms of them that entered into the temple." 
Acts3:3 (Which same) When he saw Peter and John, that they would into the temple, he desired to receive an alms;" 
Acts3:3 (Which same) When he saw Peter and John, that they would into the temple, he desired to receive an alms;" 
Acts3:4 (And) Peter fastened his eyes on(beheld) him with John and said: look on us," 
Acts3:4 (And) Peter fastened his eyes on(beheld) him with John and said: look on us," 
Acts3:5 and he gave heed unto them, trusting(hoping) to receive something of them." 
Acts3:6 Then said Peter: Silver and gold have I none, such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk." 
Acts3:7 And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up. And immediately his feet and anklebones received strength," 
Acts3:8 and he sprang, stood, and also walked, and entered with them into the temple walking, and leaping, and lauding(praising) God." 
Acts3:9 And all the people saw him walk and laud(praise) God. 
Acts3:10 And they knew him, that it was he which sat and begged(for alms) at the beautiful gate of the temple. And they wondered, and were sore astonied at that which had happened unto him." 
Acts3:11 (And) As the halt which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran amazed unto them in Solomon's hall.(porch.)" 
Acts3:11 (And) As the halt which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran amazed unto them in Solomon's hall.(porch.)" 
Acts3:12 When Peter saw that, he answered unto the people: Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? Or why look ye so steadfastly on us, as though by our own power, or holiness(or deserving) we had made this man go?(to walk)" 
Acts3:13 (The) God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers hath glorified his son Jesus, whom ye betrayed,(delivered) and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had judged him to be loosed:(lowsed)" 
Acts3:14 but ye denied the holy and just, and desired that he should give you a murderer,(and desired a murderer to be given you)" 
Acts3:15 and killed the Lord(ye slew the prince) of life whom God hath raised from death, of the which we are witnesses:" 
Acts3:16 And his name thorow the faith of his name hath made this man sound(hath he confirmed his name upon this man) whom ye see and know. And the faith which is by him, hath to this man(him) given this health, in the presence of you all.(before your eyes)" 
Acts3:17 And now (dear) brethren I wot well(know) that thorow ignorance ye have done(did) it, as did also your heads.(rulers)" 
Acts3:18 But(those things which) God which(had) shewed before by the mouth of all his prophets(how) that Christ should suffer, (he) hath thus wise fulfilled it." 
Acts3:19 Repent ye therefore and turn that your sins may be done away when the time of comfort(refreshing) cometh, which we shall have of the presence of the Lord," 
Acts3:20 and when God shall send him, which before was preached unto you," 
Acts3:21 that is to wit Jesus Christ, which must heaven receive(receive heaven) until the time that all things be restored again, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.(,be restored again.)" 
Acts3:22 For Moses said unto the fathers: A prophet shall your(the) Lord(your) God raise up unto you, one(even) of your brethren, like unto me, him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you." 
Acts3:23 For the time will come,(shall come to pass) that every soul which shall not hear that same prophet, shall be exiled(destroyed) from (among) the people." 
Acts3:24 Also all the prophets from Samuel, and thenceforth, as many as have spoken, have in likewise told of these days." 
Acts3:25 Ye are the children of the prophets, and to you pertaineth the testament that(and of the covenant, which) God hath made unto our fathers saying to Abraham: Even in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed." 
Acts3:26 First unto you hath God raised up his son Jesus, and him he hath sent to bless you, that every one of you should turn from his(your) wickedness." 
Acts4:1 As they spake unto the people, the priests and the ruler of the temple, and the sadducees came upon them," 
Acts4:2 taking (it) grievously that they taught the people and preached in the name of Jesus(in Iesus) the resurrection from death. 
Acts4:3 And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold until the next day.(till the morrow) For it was now eventide." 
Acts4:4 (Howbeit) Many of them which heard the words believed, and the number of the men was about five thousand." 
Acts4:5 (And) It chanced on the morrow that their rulers, and seniors,(elders) and scribes," 
Acts4:6 as Annas the chief priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem," 
Acts4:6 as Annas the chief priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem," 
Acts4:7 and set them in the midst,(set the other before them) and asked by what power,(authority) or in what name have ye done this sirs?" 
Acts4:8 Then Peter full of the holy ghost said unto them. Ye rulers of the people, and seniors(elders) of Israel," 
Acts4:9 if we this day are examined of the good deed done to the sick man by what means he is made whole: 
Acts4:10 be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, and whom God raised from death again, this man standeth(even by him doth this man stand) here present before you whole." 
Acts4:11 This is the stone cast aside(refused) of you builders which is set in the chief place of the corner.(become the head corner stone) 
Acts4:12 Neither is there health(salvation) in any other. Nor yet also is there any other name given to men wherein we must be saved. 
Acts4:13 When they saw the boldness of Peter and John; And knew(understood) that they were unlearned men and lay people, they marveled, and they knew them, that they were with Jesu:" 
Acts4:13 When they saw the boldness of Peter and John; And knew(understood) that they were unlearned men and lay people, they marveled, and they knew them, that they were with Jesu:" 
Acts4:14 Seeing(and beholding) also the man which was healed standing with them, they could not say against it," 
Acts4:15 but (they) commanded them to go aside out of the council; And communed(counsell and counceled) among themselves 
Acts4:16 saying: what shall we do to these men? For a manifest sign is done by them, and is openly known to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it:" 
Acts4:17 But that it be noised no farther among the people, let us threaten and charge them that they speak henceforth to no man in this name." 
Acts4:18 And they called them, and commanded them that in no wise they should speak or teach in the name of Jesu." 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John answered unto them and said: whether it be right in the sight of God to obey you more than God judge ye. 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John answered unto them and said: whether it be right in the sight of God to obey you more than God judge ye. 
Acts4:20 For we cannot but speak that which we have seen and heard. 
Acts4:21 So threatened they them and let them go; And found no thing how to punish them, because of the people: For all men lauded(praised) God for the miracle which was done." 
Acts4:22 For the man was above forty year old, on whom this miracle(token) of healing was shewed." 
Acts4:23 As soon as they were let go they came to their fellows, and shewed all that the high priests and seniors(elders) had said. (to them:)" 
Acts4:24 (And) When they heard that, with one mind (accord) they lift(lifted) up their voices to God and said: Lord, thou art God which hast made heaven and earth, the sea and all that in them is," 
Acts4:25 which (in the holy ghost) by the mouth of thy servant David (our father) hast said: Why did the heathen grudge,(rage) and the people imagine vain things." 
Acts4:26 The kings of the earth stood up and the rulers came together against the Lord; And against his Christ. 
Acts4:27 For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and also Pontius Pilate with the gentiles, and the people of Israel, gathered themselves together(to gether) (in this city)" 
Acts4:28 for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. 
Acts4:29 And now Lord behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants with all confidence(steadfast boldness) to speak thy word." 
Acts4:30 So that thou stretch forth thy(thine) hand that healing, and signs,(tokens) and wonders be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus." 
Acts4:31 And as soon as they had prayed, the place moved where they were assembled(gathered) together, and they were all filled with the holy ghost, and they spake the word of God boldly." 
Acts4:32 (And) The multitude of them that believed, were of one heart; And of one soul. Also none of them said, that any thing of those(of the things) which he possessed was his own: But had all things common." 
Acts4:33 And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesu. And great grace was with them all. 
Acts4:34 Neither was there any among them that lacked. For as many as were possessors of lands or houses, sold them and brought the price of the things that were sold," 
Acts4:35 and laid it down at the apostles' feet. And distribution was made unto every man according as he had need. 
Acts4:36 And Joses which was also called of the apostles Barnabas (that is to say the son of consolation, being a Levite, and of the country of Cipers)" 
Acts4:37 had land, and sold it, and laid the price down at the apostles' feet." 
Acts5:1 A certain man named Ananias with Saphira his wife sold a possession," 
Acts5:2 and kept away part of the price (his wife also being of counsel) and brought a certain part, and laid it down at the apostles' feet." 
Acts5:3 Then said Peter: Ananias how is it that Satan hath filled thine heart, that thou shouldest lie unto the holy ghost, and keep away part of the price of thy(the) livelihood:" 
Acts5:4 Pertained it not unto thee only? And after it was sold, was not the price in thine own power? How is it that thou hast conceived this thing in thine heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God." 
Acts5:5 When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and gave up the ghost. And great fear came on all them that these things heard." 
Acts5:6 And the young men rose up, and put him apart, and carried him out, and buried him." 
Acts5:7 (And) It fortuned as it were about the space of three hours after, that his wife came in ignorant of that which was done." 
Acts5:8 (And) Peter said unto her: Tell me, sold(gave) ye the land for so much? And she said: yea for so much." 
Acts5:9 (Then) Peter said unto her: why have ye agreed together,(to gether) to tempt the spirit of the Lord? Lo,(Behold) the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out;" 
Acts5:10 Then she fell down straightway at his feet and yielded up the ghost. (And) The young men came in and found her dead, and carried her out and buried her by her husband." 
Acts5:11 And great fear came on all the congregation. And on as many as heard it. 
Acts5:12 By the hands of the apostles were many signs(tokens) and wonders shewed among the people. And they were all together with one accord in Solomon's hall.(Salomons porch.) 
Acts5:13 And of other durst no man join himself to them: but(neverthelater) the people magnified them. 
Acts5:14 The number of them that believed in the Lord both of men and women grew more and more 
Acts5:15 insomuch that they brought their(the) sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and pallets, that at the least way the shadow of Peter when he came by, might shadow some of them. (and that they might all be delivered from their infirmities)" 
Acts5:16 There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing with them sick (folks) and them which were vexed with unclean spirits. And they were healed every one." 
Acts5:17 (Then) The chief priest rose up and (all) they that were with him (which is the sect of the sadducees) and were full of indignation," 
Acts5:18 and laid hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison:" 
Acts5:19 but the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison door,(doors) and brought them forth, and said:" 
Acts5:20 go step forth, and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life." 
Acts5:21 When they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning and taught. The chief priest came and they that were with him and called a council together, and all the seniors(elders) of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to fetch them." 
Acts5:22 When the ministers came and found them not in the prison, they came again(returned) and told" 
Acts5:23 saying: The prison found we shut with all diligence,(as sure as was possible) and the keepers standing without before the doors: but when we had opened we found no man within." 
Acts5:24 When the chief priest of all and the ruler of the temple, and the high priests heard these things, they doubted of them, whereunto this would grow." 
Acts5:25 Then came one and shewed them: Lo(behold) the men that ye put in prison stand in the temple, and preach to(teach) the people." 
Acts5:26 Then went the ruler of the temple with ministers, and brought them without violence. For they feared the people lest they should have been stoned." 
Acts5:27 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the chief priest asked them" 
Acts5:28 saying: did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name? and behold ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and ye intend to bring this man's blood upon us." 
Acts5:29 Peter and the other apostles answered, and said: We ought more to obey God than men." 
Acts5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on tree." 
Acts5:31 Him being a ruler and a saviour hath God exalted with his right hand,(Him hath God lift up with his right hand, to be a ruler and a saviour) for to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins." 
Acts5:32 And we are his records as concerning these things:(records of these words) and also the holy ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him." 
Acts5:33 When they heard that they clave asunder, and sought means to slay them." 
Acts5:34 Then stood there up one in the council, a pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of law,(scribe) had in authority among(great reputation before) (all) the people and commanded(bade) to put the apostles aside a little space," 
Acts5:35 and said unto them: Men of Israel take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. 
Acts5:36 Before these days rose up one Theudas boasting(boosting) himself, to whom resorted a number of men, about a four hundred, which was slain, and they all which believed(enclined unto) him were scattered abroad, and brought to nought." 
Acts5:37 After this man arose there up one Judas of Galilee, in the time when tribute began, and drew away much people after him. He also perished: and all even as many as harkened to(they that enclined unto) him are scattered a broad." 
Acts5:38 And now I say unto you: refrain yourselves from these men, let them alone: For if this(the) counsel or (this) work be of men, it will come to nought:" 
Acts5:39 but and if it be of God, ye cannot destroy it, lest haply ye be found to strive against God." 
Acts5:40 And to him they agreed, and called the apostles, and beat them, and commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesu, and let them go." 
Acts5:41 And they departed from the council rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer rebuke for his name. 
Acts5:42 And daily in the temple, and in every house they ceased not, teaching and preaching (the Gospell of) Jesus Christ." 
Acts6:1 In those days as the number of the disciples grew,(increased) there arose a grudge among the greeks against the hebrews, because their widows were despised(not looked upon) in the daily ministration.(daily handreaching)" 
Acts6:2 Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples together(to gether) and said: it is not meet that we should leave the word of God and serve at the tables," 
Acts6:3 wherefore brethren look ye out among you seven men of honest report, and full of the holy ghost and wisdom, which we may appoint to this needful business:" 
Acts6:4 but we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministration of the word.(the word of God)" 
Acts6:5 And the saying pleased the whole multitude well. And they chose Stephen a man full of faith, and of the holy ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nichanor, and Timon, and Permenas, and Nicholas a proselyte(convert) of Antioch," 
Acts6:6 which they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them." 
Acts6:7 And the word of God increased, and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly. And a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith." 
Acts6:8 (And) Stephen full of faith and power did great wonders, and miracles among the people." 
Acts6:9 Then there arose certain of the Synagogue, which are called libertines, and Sirenens, and Alexandrians,(of Alexandria) and Cilicilians,(of Cilicia) and Asians,(of Asia) and disputed with Steven." 
Acts6:10 And they could not resist the wisdom, and the spirit, with which he spake." 
Acts6:11 Then sent they in men which said: we have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God," 
Acts6:12 and they moved the people, and the seniors,(elders) and the scribes: and they came upon him and caught him, and brought him to the council," 
Acts6:13 and brought forth false witnesses which said: This man ceaseth not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law," 
Acts6:14 for we heard him say: This Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the ordinances which Moses gave unto us." 
Acts6:15 And all that sat in the council looked steadfastly on him, and saw his face as it had been the face of an angel." 
Acts7:1 Then said the chief priest: is it even so? 
Acts7:2 And he said: ye men, brethren, and fathers, hearken to. The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham while he was yet in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran," 
Acts7:3 and said unto him: come out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew unto thee." 
Acts7:4 Then came he out of the land of Caldey,(Chaldey) and dwelt in Charran. And after that as soon as his father was dead, he brought him into this land, wherein(in which) ye now dwell," 
Acts7:5 and he gave him none inheritance in it, no not one foot of ground.(the breadth of a foot.) And(:but) promised that he would give it to him (to possess) and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child." 
Acts7:6 God verily spake on this wise, thy(that this) seed shall(should) be a dweller(stranger) in a strange land, and (that) they shall put(should keep) them in bondage, and entreat them evil four hundred years." 
Acts7:7 And(But) the nation to whom they shall be in bondage, will I judge (said God) and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place." 
Acts7:8 And (he) gave him the testament(covenant) of circumcision, and he begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob the twelve patriarchs." 
Acts7:9 And the patriarchs having indignation sold Joseph into Egypt, and God was with him," 
Acts7:10 and delivered him out of all his adversities,(troubles) and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt; And Pharaoh(which) made him governor over Egypt, and over all his household." 
Acts7:11 Then came there a dearth over all the land of Egypt, and Canaan, and great affliction,(trouble) that our fathers found no sustenance." 
Acts7:12 (But) When Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent our fathers first," 
Acts7:13 and when he had sent them the(at) second time, Joseph was known of his brethren, and Joseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh." 
Acts7:14 Then sent Joseph and caused his father to be brought and all his kin, three score and fifteen souls." 
Acts7:15 And Jacob descended into Egypt, and died both he and our fathers," 
Acts7:16 and were translated into(brought over unto) Sichem, and were put in the sepulchre that Abraham bought for money of the sons of Emor, at Sichem." 
Acts7:17 When the time of the promise drew nigh (which God had promised with an oath(sworn) to Abraham) the people grew and multiplied in Egypt 
Acts7:18 till another king arose which knew not of Joseph. 
Acts7:19 The same dealt subtly with our kindred, and evil intreated our fathers, and made them to cast out their(young) children, that they should not remain alive." 
Acts7:20 The same time was Moses born, and was a proper child in the sight of God, which was nourished up in his father's house three months." 
Acts7:21 When he was cast out Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him up for her own son." 
Acts7:22 And Moses was learned in all manner wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in deeds and in words." 
Acts7:23 (And) When he was full forty year old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren, the children of Israel." 
Acts7:24 And when he saw one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged his quarrel that had the harm done to him, and smote the Egyptian." 
Acts7:25 For he supposed(thought) his brethren would have understood how that God by his hands should give them health:(save them.) but they understood not. 
Acts7:26 And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at one again saying: Sirs ye are brethren why hurt ye one another?" 
Acts7:27 But he that did his neighbour wrong, thrust him away saying: Who made thee a ruler and a judge among(over) us?" 
Acts7:28 What wilt thou kill(slay) me, as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday?" 
Acts7:29 Then fled Moses at that word,(saying) and was a stranger in the land of Madian; Where he begat two sons." 
Acts7:30 (And) When forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sina the(an) angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush." 
Acts7:31 When Moses saw it he wondered at the sight, and as he drew near to behold it. And the voice of the Lord came unto him:" 
Acts7:32 I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. Moses trembled and durst not behold." 
Acts7:33 Then said the Lord to him put off thy shoes from thy feet, for the place where thou standest is holy ground." 
Acts7:34 I have perfectly seen the affliction(trouble) of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. And now come and I will send thee into Egypt." 
Acts7:35 The same(This) Moses whom they forsook saying: who made the a ruler and a judge: (the same) God sent both a ruler and a deliverer, by the hands of the angel which appeared to him in the bush." 
Acts7:36 This man(And the same) brought them out shewing wonders and signs(tokens) in Egypt, and in the reed sea, and in the wilderness forty years." 
Acts7:37 This is that Moses which said unto the children of Israel: A prophet shall your(the) Lord God raise up unto you of your brethren like unto me, him shall ye hear." 
Acts7:38 This is he that was in the congregation, in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers. This man received the word of life to give unto us," 
Acts7:39 to whom our fathers would not obey: But cast it from them, and in their hearts turned back again into Egypt," 
Acts7:40 saying unto Aaron: Make us gods to go before us. For we wot not what is become of this Moses that brought us out of the land of Egypt. 
Acts7:41 And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the image, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands." 
Acts7:42 Then God turned himself, and gave them up, that they should worship the stars of the sky, as it is written in the book of the prophets: O ye of the house of Israel: have ye given unto me offerings or sacrifice,(gave ye to me sacrifices and meat offerings) by the space of forty years in the wilderness?" 
Acts7:43 And ye took unto you the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to worship them. And I will translate you beyond Babylon." 
Acts7:44 Our fathers had the tabernacle of testimony(witness) in the wilderness, as he had appointed them speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen," 
Acts7:45 which tabernacle our fathers received, and brought it in with Josue into the possession of the gentiles, which gentiles God drave out before the face of our fathers unto the time of David," 
Acts7:46 which found favour before God, and desired that he might find(would faine have made) a tabernacle for the God of Jacob." 
Acts7:47 And(But) Solomon built him an house. 
Acts7:48 But(Howbeit) he that is highest of all dwelleth not in temples made with hands, as saith the prophet:" 
Acts7:49 Heaven is my seat, and earth is my foot stool, what house will ye build for me saith the Lord? or what resting place?(or what place is it that I should rest in?)" 
Acts7:50 hath not my hand made all these things? 
Acts7:51 Ye stiffnecked and of uncircumcised hearts and ears: ye have always(all ways) resisted the holy ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye." 
Acts7:52 Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And they have slain them, which shewed before of the coming of that Just, whom ye have betrayed and murdered." 
Acts7:53 And ye also have received a law by the ordinance(ministration) of angels, and have not kept it." 
Acts7:54 When they heard these things, their hearts clave asunder, and they gnashed on him with their teeth." 
Acts7:55 (But) He being full of the holy ghost looked up (steadfastly) with his eyes into heaven and saw the majesty(glory) of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God," 
Acts7:56 and said: lo,(behold) I see the heavens open, and the son of man stand(stonding) on the right hand of God." 
Acts7:57 Then they gave a shout with a loud voice, and stopped their ears and all ran upon him at once," 
Acts7:58 and cast him out of the city, and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet named Saul." 
Acts7:59 And they stoned Steven calling on and saying: Lord Jesu receive my spirit. 
Acts7:60 And he kneeled down and cried with a loud voice: Lord impute not this sin unto them;(lord lay not this sin to their charge.) For they wot not what they do. And when he had thus spoken he fell asleep. 
Acts8:1 Saul had pleasure in his death. (And) At that time there was a great persecution against the congregation which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad thorowout the regions of Jury and Samaria, except the apostles." 
Acts8:2 Then devout men dressed Steven, and made great lamentation over him." 
Acts8:3 (But) Saul made havoc of the congregation entering into every house, and drew out both man and woman, and thrust them into prison." 
Acts8:4 (Howbeit) They that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word. 
Acts8:5 Then came Philip into a city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them." 
Acts8:6 And the people gave heed unto those things which Philip spake with one accord, in that they heard and saw the miracles which he did." 
Acts8:7 For unclean spirits crying with loud voice, came out of many which(that) were possessed of them. (And) Many taken with palsies, and many that halted were healed." 
Acts8:8 And there was great joy in that city. 
Acts8:9 And there was a certain man called Simon, which beforetime in the same city, used witchcraft and bewitched the people, (of Samaria) saying that he was a man that could do great things." 
Acts8:10 Whom they regarded, from the least to the greatest saying: this is that power of God, which is called great.(this fellow is the great power of God)" 
Acts8:11 (And) Him they set much by, because of long time with sorcery he had deluded(mocked) their wits.(But they regarded him, because that of longe time he had bewitched them with his sorcery.)" 
Acts8:12 (But) As soon as they believed Philip's preaching of the kingdom of God and of the name of Jesu Christ, they were baptised both men and women." 
Acts8:13 Then Simon himself believed, (also) and was baptised. And continued with Philip, and wondered beholding the miracles(tokens) and signs, which were shewed." 
Acts8:14 When the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard say that Samaria had received the word of God: they sent unto them Peter and John," 
Acts8:14 When the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard say that Samaria had received the word of God: they sent unto them Peter and John," 
Acts8:15 which when they were come, prayed for them, that they might receive the holy ghost." 
Acts8:16 For as yet he was come on none of them: But they were baptised only in the name of Christ Jesu. 
Acts8:17 Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the holy ghost." 
Acts8:18 When Simon saw that thorow laying on of the apostles' hands on them, the holy ghost was given: he offered them money saying:" 
Acts8:19 Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay(put the) hands, he may receive the holy ghost." 
Acts8:20 Then said Peter unto him: Perish thou and thy money together.(thy money perish with thee, because thou) For thou wenest that the gift of God may be obtained with money?" 
Acts8:21 thou hast neither part nor fellowship in this business. For thy heart is not right in the sight of God. 
Acts8:22 Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God that the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee." 
Acts8:23 For I perceive(see) that thou art full of bitter gall, and wrapped in iniquity.(with unrighteousness)" 
Acts8:24 Then answered Simon and said: Pray ye to the Lord for me that none of these things which ye have spoken fall on me.(come upon me) 
Acts8:25 And they when they had testified, and preached(spoke) the word of the Lord returned to(toward) Jerusalem and preached the gospel(gospell) in many cities of the Samaritans." 
Acts8:26 Then the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip saying: Arise and go towards midday unto the way which leadeth(that goeth down) from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is in the desert." 
Acts8:27 (And) He arose and went on, and behold a man of Ethiopia which was gelded,(a chamberlain) and of great authority with Candace queen of the Ethiophians, which(and) had the rule of all her treasure, came to Jerusalem for to pray.(worship)" 
Acts8:28 (And) As he returned home again sitting in his chariot he read Esay the prophet. 
Acts8:29 (Then) The spirit said unto Philip: Go near and join thyself to yonder chariot. 
Acts8:30 (And) Philip ran to him, and heard him read Esay the prophet and said: Understandest thou what thou readest?" 
Acts8:31 And he said: how can I, except I had a guide? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him." 
Acts8:32 The tenor of the scripture which he read was this. He was led as a sheep to be slain: And like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth," 
Acts8:33 in that he submitted himself, his judgement was exalted:(Because of his humbleness, he was not esteemed:) who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth." 
Acts8:34 The gelded man(chamberlain) answered Philip and said: I pray thee of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself? or of some other man? 
Acts8:35 (And) Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.(the Gospell of Iesus)" 
Acts8:36 And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water, and the gelded man(chamberlain) said: See here is water, what shall let me to be baptised?" 
Acts8:37 Philip said unto him: If thou believe with all thine heart, thou mayst. He answered saying:(and said:) I believe that Jesus Christ is the son of God." 
Acts8:38 And (he) commanded the chariot to stand still. And they went down both into the water: both Philip and also the gelded man.(chamberlain) And he baptised him. 
Acts8:39 (And) As soon as they were come out of the water the spirit of the Lord caught away Philip. And(that) the gelded man(chamberlain) saw him no more. And he went on his way rejoicing: 
Acts8:40 but Philip was found at Azotus. And he walked thorow out the country preaching in their(preached the Gospell unto all the) cities, till he came to Cesarea." 
Acts9:1 (And) Saul yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest," 
Acts9:2 and desired of him letters to Damasco, to the synagogues: that if he found any of this way whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem." 
Acts9:3 (But) As he went on his journey, it fortuned that he drew nigh to Damasco,(as he journeyed and was come nigh to Damasco) and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven." 
Acts9:4 And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying to him: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" 
Acts9:5 And he said what art thou Lord? (And) The Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest, it shall be hard for thee to kick against the prick." 
Acts9:6 (And) He both trembling and astonied said: Lord what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him: Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou shalt do." 
Acts9:7 The men which accompanied(journeyed with) him on his way stood amazed, for they heard a voice, but saw no man." 
Acts9:8 (And) Saul arose from the earth; And when he had opened his eyes he(but) saw no man. Then led they him by the hand, and brought him into Damasco." 
Acts9:9 And he was three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank." 
Acts9:10 (And) There was a certain disciple at Damasco named Ananias, (and) to him said the Lord in a vision: Ananias. And he said: (behold) I am here Lord." 
Acts9:11 And the Lord said to him: arise and go into the street which is called straight, and seek in the house of Judas after one called Saul of the city of Tharsus. For behold he prayeth;" 
Acts9:12 And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in unto him; And putting his hands on him, that he might receive his sight." 
Acts9:13 (Then) Ananias answered: Lord I have heard by many of this man, how much hurt(evil) he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem:" 
Acts9:14 and in this place(here) he hath authority of the high priests to bind all that call on thy name. 
Acts9:15 The Lord said unto him: Go thy ways: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the gentiles, and kings and the children of Israel:" 
Acts9:16 For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. 
Acts9:17 Ananias went his way and entered into the house and put his hands on him and said: brother Saul, the Lord that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight and be filled with the holy ghost." 
Acts9:18 And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales and he received his sight, and arose and was baptised." 
Acts9:19 And received meat and was comforted. Then was Saul a certain days with the disciples which were at Damasco. 
Acts9:20 And straightway he preached Christ in the Synagogues how that he was the son of God. 
Acts9:21 All that heard him were amazed and said: is not this he that spoiled them which called on this name in Jerusalem? And came hither for the intent that he should bring them bound unto the high priests? 
Acts9:22 (But) Saul increased in strength; And confounded the jews which dwelt at Damasco affirming that this was very Christ. 
Acts9:23 (And) After a good while, the jews took counsel (to gether) among themselves to kill him." 
Acts9:24 But their layings wait were(was) known of Saul. And they watched at the gates day and night to kill him. 
Acts9:25 Then the disciples took him by night, and put him thorow the wall and let him down in a basket." 
Acts9:26 (And) When Saul came(was come) to Jerusalem he assayed to couple himself with the disciples, and they were all afraid of him and believed not that he was a disciple." 
Acts9:27 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and told(declared to) them how he had seen the Lord in the way and had spoken with him: and how he had done boldly at Damasco in the name of Jesu; 
Acts9:28 And he had his conversation with them at Jerusalem," 
Acts9:29 and quit himself boldly in the name of the Lord Jesu. And he spake and disputed with the greeks and they went about to slay him. 
Acts9:30 (But) When the brethren knew of that, they brought him to Cesarea, and sent him forth to Tharsus." 
Acts9:31 Then had the congregations rest thorowout all Jewry and Galilee and Samary, and were edified, and walked in the fear of the Lord; And multiplied by(filled with) the comfort of the holy ghost." 
Acts9:32 (And) It chanced that as Peter walked throughout all quarters, he came to the saints which dwelt at Lydda." 
Acts9:33 And there he found a certain man named Eneas, which had kept his bed eight year sick of the palsy." 
Acts9:34 Then said Peter unto him: Eneas, the Lord Jesus Christ make thee whole: Arise and make thy bed. And he arose immediately." 
Acts9:35 And all that dwelt at Lydda and Assaron, saw him, and turned to the Lord." 
Acts9:36 There was at Joppa a certain woman (which was a disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas) she(the same) was full of good works and alms deeds, which she did." 
Acts9:37 (And) It chanced in those days that she was sick and died. When they had washed her and laid her in a chamber: 
Acts9:38 Because Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him, desiring him that he would not be grieved to come unto them." 
Acts9:39 Peter arose and came with them: (And) when he was come, they brought him into the chamber, and all the widows stood round about him weeping and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made while she was with them." 
Acts9:40 (And) Peter put them all forth and kneeled down and prayed and turned him to the body, and said: Tabitha, arise. (And) She opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up." 
Acts9:41 And he gave her his(the) hand and lift her up, and called the saints and widows and shewed her alive." 
Acts9:42 And it was known thorow out all Joppa, and many believed on the Lord." 
Acts9:43 And it fortuned that he tarried many days in(long season at) Joppa with one Simon a tanner. 
Acts10:1 There was a certain man in Cesarea called Cornelius, a captain of the soldiers of Italy," 
Acts10:2 a devout man, and one that feared God with all his household, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed God always." 
Acts10:3 The same man saw in a vision evidently(openly) about the ninth hour of the day the(an) angel of God coming in unto(into) him, and saying unto him: Cornelius," 
Acts10:4 when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said: what is it Lord? He said unto him: Thy prayers and thy alms are come up into remembrance in the presence of(before) God." 
Acts10:5 And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon named also Peter." 
Acts10:6 He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the seaside. He shall tell thee, what thou oughtest to do." 
Acts10:7 When the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he called two of his household, (servants) and a devout soldier of them that waited on him," 
Acts10:8 to whom he told(and told them) all the matter, and sent them to Joppa." 
Acts10:9 On the morrow as they went on their journey and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up into the uppermost part(upon the top) of the house to pray, about the sixth hour." 
Acts10:10 Then waxed he an hungered, and would have eaten; (But) while they made ready for him. He fell into a trance," 
Acts10:11 and saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel come down unto him, as it had been a great sheet, knit at the four corners, and was let down to the earth," 
Acts10:12 wherein were all manner of four footed beasts of the earth and vermin and worms, and fouls of the air." 
Acts10:13 And(there came) a voice spake unto him from heaven: Rise Peter Kill and eat. 
Acts10:14 (But) Peter said: God forbid Lord, for I have never eaten any thing that is common or unclean." 
Acts10:15 And the voice spake unto him again the second time: What God hath cleansed that make thou not common.(unclean) 
Acts10:16 This was done thrice; And the vessel was received up again into heaven. 
Acts10:17 While Peter mused in himself what this vision which he had seen meant, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius, had made inquirance for Simon's house, and stood before the door." 
Acts10:18 And called out one and asked whether Simon which was also called Peter, were lodged there." 
Acts10:19 While Peter thought on this vision, the spirit said unto him: Lo,(Behold) men seek thee: arise therefore, get thee down," 
Acts10:20 and go with them, and doubt not. For I have sent them." 
Acts10:21 Peter went down to the men which were sent unto him from Cornelius, and said: Lo,(Behold) I am he, whom ye seek, what is the cause wherefore ye are come?" 
Acts10:22 (And) They said unto him: Cornelius the captain a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the people of the jews was warned by an holy angel, to send for thee in to his house, and to hear words of thee." 
Acts10:23 Then called he them in, and lodged them. (And) On the morrow Peter went (away) with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him." 
Acts10:24 And the third day entered(the day following came) they into Cesaria. (And) Cornelius waited for them, and had called together(to gether) his kinsmen, and special friends." 
Acts10:25 And as it chanced Peter to come in; Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and worshipped him." 
Acts10:26 (But) Peter took him up, saying: (stand up: for) Even I myself am a man." 
Acts10:27 And as he talked with him he came in, and found many that were come together.(to gether)" 
Acts10:28 And he said unto them: Ye do know how that it is an unlawful thing for a man that is a jew to company or come unto an alien:(stranger) But God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean: 
Acts10:29 therefore came I unto you without scruple,(saying nay) as soon as I was sent for. I ask therefore: for what intent have ye sent for me?" 
Acts10:30 And Cornelius said: This day now four days I fasted, and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing," 
Acts10:31 and said: Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms deeds are had in remembrance in the sight of God." 
Acts10:32 Send therefore to Joppa, and call for Simon which is also called Peter. He is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the seaside, the which as soon as he is come, shall speak unto thee." 
Acts10:33 Then sent I for thee immediately, and thou hast well done for to come. Now are we all here, present before God to hear all things that are commanded unto thee of God." 
Acts10:34 (Then) Peter opened his mouth(mought) and said: Of a truth I perceive, that God is not partial,(God hath no respect of persons)" 
Acts10:35 but in all people he that feareth(fear) him and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him." 
Acts10:36 Ye know the preaching that God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christe (which is Lord over all things.)" 
Acts10:37 which preaching was published thorowout all Jewry, and began in Galilee, after the baptism preached by John;" 
Acts10:37 which preaching was published thorowout all Jewry, and began in Galilee, after the baptism preached by John;" 
Acts10:38 After that(how) God had anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the holy ghost, and with power, he(Which Iesus) went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed with(of the) devils, for God was with him." 
Acts10:39 And we are witnesses of all things which he did in the land of the jews and at Jerusalem, whom they slew, and hung on tree." 
Acts10:40 Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly," 
Acts10:41 not to all the people, but unto us witnesses chosen before of God, which ate and drank with him, after he arose from death." 
Acts10:42 And he commanded (unto) us to preach unto the people and testify, that it is he that is ordained of God a judge of quick and dead." 
Acts10:43 To him giveth all the prophets witness, that thorow his name shall receive remission of sins all that believe in him.(all that believe in him shall receive remission of sins.)" 
Acts10:44 While Peter yet spake these words, the holy ghost fell on all them which heard his(the) preaching.(hearkened unto the word)" 
Acts10:45 And they(the faithfull) of the circumcision which believed were astonied, as many as came with Peter, because that on the gentiles also was shed out the gift of the holy ghost." 
Acts10:46 For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then answered Peter:" 
Acts10:47 can any man forbid water that these should not be baptised, which have received the holy ghost as well as we?" 
Acts10:48 And he commanded them to be baptised in the name of the Lord. Then prayed they him, to tarry a few days." 
Acts11:1 It came to the ears of the apostles and the brethren which were in Jewry, that the heathen also had received the word of God.(And the Apostles and the brethren that were thorowout Jewry heard say that the Heathen had also received the word of God.)" 
Acts11:2 (And) When Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they of the circumcision disputed(reasoned) with him, saying:" 
Acts11:3 Thou wentest in unto(into) men uncircumcised, and atest with them." 
Acts11:4 (Then) Peter began and expounded the thing in order to them saying: 
Acts11:5 I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision; A certain vessel descend, as it had been a large linen cloth, let down from heaven by the four corners; And it came to me:" 
Acts11:6 into the which when I had fastened mine eyes I considered and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth, and vermin and worms, and fowls of the air." 
Acts11:7 (And) I heard also a voice saying unto me: Arise Peter, slay and eat." 
Acts11:8 And I said: God forbid Lord, for nothing common or unclean hath at any time entered into my mouth.(mought)" 
Acts11:9 (But) The voice answered me again from heaven count not thou those things common,(unclean) which God hath cleansed." 
Acts11:10 And this was done three times. And all were taken up again into heaven. 
Acts11:11 And behold immediately were there three men come unto the house where I was, sent from Cesarea unto me." 
Acts11:12 And the spirit said unto me, that I should go with them, without doubting. Moreover the six brethren accompanied me. And we entered into the man's house." 
Acts11:13 And he shewed us, how he had seen an angel in his house, which stood and said to him: Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon, named also Peter" 
Acts11:14 he shall tell thee words, whereby both thou and all thine house shall be saved." 
Acts11:15 And as I began to preach, the holy ghost fell on them, as he did on us at the beginning." 
Acts11:16 Then came to my remembrance the words of the Lord, how he said: John baptised with water, but ye shall be baptised with the holy ghost." 
Acts11:16 Then came to my remembrance the words of the Lord, how he said: John baptised with water, but ye shall be baptised with the holy ghost." 
Acts11:17 Forasmuch then as God gave them like gifts, as he did unto us, when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ: what was I that I should have withstood God?" 
Acts11:18 when they heard this, they held their peace and glorified(praised) God, saying: Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life." 
Acts11:19 They which were scattered abroad thorow the affliction(trouble) that arose about Steven, walked thorow out till they came unto Phenice and Cypers and Antioche, preaching the word to no man, but unto the jews only." 
Acts11:20 Some of them were men of Cypers and of Syrene, which when they were come into Antioch, spake unto the greeks, and preached the Lord Jesus.(the Gospell of the LORDE Iesu)" 
Acts11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned unto the Lord." 
Acts11:22 Tidings of this(these things) came unto the ears of the congregation, which was in Jerusalem; And they sent forth Barnabas that he should go unto Antioche." 
Acts11:23 Which when he was come, and had seen the grace of the Lord,(God) was glad, and exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they would continually cleave unto the Lord." 
Acts11:24 For he was a perfect(good) man, and full of the holy ghost and of faith. And much people was added unto the Lord." 
Acts11:25 Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul," 
Acts11:26 and when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioche. And it chanced that a whole year they had their conversation with the congregation there, and taught much people insomuch that the disciples of Antioche were the first that were called Christen." 
Acts11:27 In those days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioche. 
Acts11:28 (And) There stood up one of them named Agabus, and signified(declared) by the spirit, that there should be great dearth throughout all the world, which came to pass in the Emperor Claudius days." 
Acts11:29 Then the disciples every man according to his ability, purposed to send succour(an handreaching) unto the brethren which dwelt in Jewry," 
Acts11:30 which thing they also did, and sent it to the seniors,(elders) by the hands of Barnabas and Saul." 
Acts12:1 In that time Herod the king layed(streched forth his) hands on(to vex) certain of the congregation, to vex them." 
Acts12:2 And he killed James the brother of John with a(the) sword: 
Acts12:2 And he killed James the brother of John with a(the) sword: 
Acts12:2 And he killed James the brother of John with a(the) sword: 
Acts12:3 and because he saw that it pleased the jews, he proceeded further, to take(took) Peter also. Then were the days of unleavened(sweet) bread," 
Acts12:4 and when he had caught him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to be kept, intending after ester to bring him forth to the people." 
Acts12:5 Then was Peter kept in prison. But prayer was made without ceasing of the congregation unto God for him. 
Acts12:6 (And) When Herod would have brought him out unto the people, the same night slept Peter between two soldiers, bound with two chains; And the keepers before the door kept the prison." 
Acts12:7 And behold the angel of the Lord was there present, and a light shined in the lodge. And he smote Peter on the side, and stirred(waked) him up saying: arise up quickly. And the(his) chains fell off from his hands." 
Acts12:8 And the angel said unto him: gird thyself and bind on thy sandals; And so he did. And he said unto him: cast on thy mantle about thee, and follow me." 
Acts12:9 And he came out and followed him, and wist not, that it was truth which was done by the angel, but thought he had seen a vision." 
Acts12:10 When they were past the first and the second watch, they came unto the iron gate, that leadeth unto the city, which opened to them by his own accord. And they went out and passed thorow one street, and by and by the angel departed from him." 
Acts12:11 And when Peter was come to himself, he said: now I know of a surety,(trueth) that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me from(out of) the hand of Herod, and from all the waiting for of the people of the jews." 
Acts12:12 And as he considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of one John, which was called Mark also, where many were gathered together in prayer." 
Acts12:12 And as he considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of one John, which was called Mark also, where many were gathered together in prayer." 
Acts12:12 And as he considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of one John, which was called Mark also, where many were gathered together in prayer." 
Acts12:13 As Peter knocked at the entry door, a damsel came forth to hearken, named Rhoda." 
Acts12:14 And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the entry for gladness, but ran in and told how Peter stood before the entry." 
Acts12:15 And they said unto her: thou art mad. And she bare them down that it was even so. Then said they: it is his angel. 
Acts12:16 Peter continued knocking: When they had opened the door, and saw him, they were astonied." 
Acts12:17 (And) He beckoned unto them with his(the) hand to hold their peace, and told them by what means the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And (he) said: go shew this(these things) unto James and to the brethren. And he departed and went into another place." 
Acts12:17 (And) He beckoned unto them with his(the) hand to hold their peace, and told them by what means the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And (he) said: go shew this(these things) unto James and to the brethren. And he departed and went into another place." 
Acts12:18 As soon as it was day there was no little ado among the soldiers, what was become of Peter." 
Acts12:19 When Herod had called for him, and found him not, he examined the keepers, and commanded(them) to depart. And he descended from Jewry to Cesarea, and there abode." 
Acts12:20 Herod was displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon. And they came all at once,(came unto him with one accord) and made intercession unto Blastus the king's chamberlain, and desired peace, because their country was nourished by the king's land." 
Acts12:21 (And) Upon a day appointed, the king(Herod) arrayed him in royal apparel, and set him in his seat, and made an oration unto them." 
Acts12:22 And the people gave a shout, saying: It is the voice of a God and not of a man." 
Acts12:23 And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the honour, and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost." 
Acts12:24 (And) The word of God grew and multiplied. 
Acts12:25 And Barnabas and Saul(Paul) returned to Jerusalem, and(when they had) fulfilled their office, and took with them John, which was also called Marcus." 
Acts12:25 And Barnabas and Saul(Paul) returned to Jerusalem, and(when they had) fulfilled their office, and took with them John, which was also called Marcus." 
Acts13:1 There were at Antioche, in the congregation, (certain) prophets and doctors,(teachers:) as Barnabas and Simeonb called Nyger; And Lucius of Cerene, and Manahen Herod the tetrarkes nurse-fellow, and Saul." 
Acts13:2 As they served God,(ministered to the Lord) and fasted; The holy ghost said: separate me Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them." 
Acts13:3 Then fasted they and prayed, and put their hands on them, and let them go." 
Acts13:4 And they after they were(And they being) sent of the holy ghost, came unto Seleutia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts13:5 And when they were come to Solamine, they shewed the word of God in the synagogues, unto(of) the jews. And they had John to their minister." 
Acts13:5 And when they were come to Solamine, they shewed the word of God in the synagogues, unto(of) the jews. And they had John to their minister." 
Acts13:6 When they had gone over all(thorowout) the Isle unto the city of Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet which was a jew," 
Acts13:7 named Barjesu,(Bariesu) which was with the ruler of the country one Sergius Paulus a prudent man.(man of understanding) The same ruler called unto him Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the word of God." 
Acts13:8 (But) The sorcerer Elemas (for so was his name by interpretation) withstood(stood) them, and sought to turn away the ruler from the faith." 
Acts13:9 Then Saul which also is called Paul being full of the holy ghost, set his eyes on him, and said:" 
Acts13:10 O full of all subtlety(futility) and deceitfulness the(,and) child of the devil, and the enemy of all righteousness thou ceasest not to pervert the straight ways of the Lord." 
Acts13:11 And now behold the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind and not see the sun for a season. And immediately (there) fell on him a mist and a darkness; And he went about seeking, them that should lead him by the hand." 
Acts13:12 Then the ruler when he saw what had happened, believed, and wondered at the doctrine of the Lord." 
Acts13:13 When Paul and they that were with him, had shipped(departed by ship) from Paphus, they came to Perga a city of Pamphilia. (And) There departed John from them, and returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:13 When Paul and they that were with him, had shipped(departed by ship) from Paphus, they came to Perga a city of Pamphilia. (And) There departed John from them, and returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:14 But they wandered thorow the countries, from Perga to Antioche a city of the country of Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down." 
Acts13:15 (And) After the lecture of the law and the prophets,(were read) the rulers of the synagogue sent unto them saying: Ye men and brethren, if ye have any sermon to exhort the people, say on." 
Acts13:16 (Then) Paul stood up and beckoned with his(the) hand(that they should hold their peace) and said: Men of Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience.(hearken to:)" 
Acts13:17 The God of this people chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with a mighty arm brought them out of it," 
Acts13:18 and about the time of forty years, suffered he their manners in the wilderness." 
Acts13:19 And he destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, and divided(parted) their land to them by Lott." 
Acts13:20 And afterward he gave unto them judges about the space of four hundred and fifty years unto the time of Samuel the prophet. 
Acts13:21 And after that they desired a king, and God gave unto them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of forty years." 
Acts13:22 And after he had put him down, he set up David to be their king, to(of) whom he gave witness,(reported) saying: I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, he shall fulfil all my will." 
Acts13:23 Of this man's seed hath God (according to his promise) brought forth to the people of Israel a saviour, one Jesus," 
Acts13:24 when John had first preached before his coming the baptism of repentance to Israel. 
Acts13:24 when John had first preached before his coming the baptism of repentance to Israel. 
Acts13:25 (And) When John had fulfilled his course, he said: Whom ye think that I am? the same am I not, but behold there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.(lowse)" 
Acts13:25 (And) When John had fulfilled his course, he said: Whom ye think that I am? the same am I not, but behold there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.(lowse)" 
Acts13:26 Ye men and brethren, children of the generation off Abraham, and whosoever among you feareth God, to you is this word of health(salvation) sent." 
Acts13:27 The inhabiters of Jerusalem, and their rulers because they knew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read every Sabbath day, (they) have fulfilled them in condemning him." 
Acts13:28 And when they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate to kill him." 
Acts13:29 And when they had fulfilled all that were written of him, they took him down from the tree and put(laid) him in a sepulchre:" 
Acts13:30 But God raised him again from death, (the third day)" 
Acts13:31 and he was seen(appeared) many days of them, which came with him from Galilee to Jerusalem which are his witnesses unto the people." 
Acts13:32 And we declare unto you, how that the promise made unto the fathers;" 
Acts13:33 God hath now fulfilled unto us the(their) children, in that he raised up Jesus again, even as it is written in the * first psalm: Thou art my son, this same day begat I thee. *(other: second psalm:)" 
Acts13:34 As concerning that he so raised him up from death, now no more to return to corruption, he said on this wise: The holy promises made(grace promised) to David I will keep faithfully.(give them faithfully to you.)" 
Acts13:35 Wherefore he saith also in another place: Thou shalt not suffer thy Saincte(thine Holy) to see corruption. 
Acts13:36 For(Howbeit) David after he had in his time fulfilled(had served) the will of God, he slept, and was laid with his fathers, and saw corruption." 
Acts13:37 But he whom God raised again, saw no corruption." 
Acts13:38 Be it known unto you therefore ye men and brethren, that thorow this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins;" 
Acts13:39 And (that) by him are all that believe (,are) justified from all things from the which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses." 
Acts13:40 Beware therefore lest that fall on you, which is spoken of in the prophets:" 
Acts13:41 Behold ye despisers, and wonder, and perish ye: for I do a work in your days, which ye shall not believe, if a man would declare it you." 
Acts13:42 When the jews(they) were gone(come) out of the Synagogue,(Synagogue of the Iews) the gentiles besought them that they would preach the word of god to them between the Sabbath days." 
Acts13:43 When the congregation was broken up, many of the jews and virtuous proselytes(converts) followed Paul and Barnabas, which spake to them and exhorted them to continue in the grace of God." 
Acts13:44 And the next Sabbath day came Almost the whole city together(to gether) to hear the word of God. 
Acts13:45 When the jews saw the people, they were full of indignation and spake against those things which were spoken of Paul; They spake(,speaking) against it, and dispraised it, railing on it." 
Acts13:46 Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said: it was meet that the word of God should first have been preached to you. But seeing ye put it from you, and think yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the gentiles." 
Acts13:47 For so hath the Lord commanded us: I have made thee a light to the gentiles, that thou be health(salvation) unto the end of the world." 
Acts13:48 The gentiles heard, and were glad and glorified(praised) the word of the Lord, and believed even as many as were ordained unto eternal(everlasting) life." 
Acts13:49 And the word of the Lord was published(spread abroad) thorowout all the region. 
Acts13:50 But the jews moved the worshipful and honorable women, and the chief men of the city. And raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coasts." 
Acts13:51 But(And) they shook off the dust off their feet against them, and came unto Iconium." 
Acts13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy and with the holy ghost. 
Acts14:1 (And) It fortuned in Iconium that they went both together(to gether) into the synagogue of the jews, and so spake, that a great multitude both of the jews and also of the greeks believed." 
Acts14:2 But the unbelieving jews, stirred up and unquieted the minds(moved and disquited the souls) of the gentiles against the brethren." 
Acts14:3 Long time abode they there and quit themselves boldly with the help of the Lord, the which gave testimony unto the word of his grace; And caused signs and wonders to be done by their hands." 
Acts14:4 The people of city were divided: and part held with the jews, and part with the apostles." 
Acts14:5 When there was a fault made both(an insurrection) of the gentiles and also of the jews with their rulers, to put them to shame and to stone them," 
Acts14:6 they were ware of(perceived) it, and fled unto Lystra and Derba, cities of Licaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about," 
Acts14:7 and there preached the gospel.(gospell) (and all the multidude was moved at their doctrine, but Paul and Barnabas taried still at Lystra)" 
Acts14:8 And there sat a certain man at Lystra weak in his feet, being halt(cripple) from his mother's womb, and never walked." 
Acts14:9 The same heard Paul preach, which beheld him and perceived that he had faith to be whole," 
Acts14:10 and said with a loud voice: stand upright on thy feet. And he started up, and walked." 
Acts14:11 (And) When the people saw what Paul had done, they lift up their voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia: Goddes are come down to us in the likeness of men." 
Acts14:12 And they called Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul Mercurius, because he was the preacher." 
Acts14:13 Then Jupiter's priest, which dwelt before their city, brought oxen and garlands unto the church porch,(before the gate) and would have done sacrifice with the people." 
Acts14:14 (But) When the apostles, Barnabas and Paul heard that, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying" 
Acts14:15 and saying: sirs, why do ye this? We are mortal men like unto you, and preach unto you, (the Gospell) that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God, which made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is," 
Acts14:16 the which in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways. 
Acts14:17 Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he shewed his benefits, in giving us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness." 
Acts14:18 And with these sayings, scarce refrained they the people, that they had not done sacrifice unto them." 
Acts14:19 Thither came certain jews from Antioche and Iconium, and obtained the peoples' consent(persuaded the people) and stoned Paul, and drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead." 
Acts14:20 (Howbeit) As the disciples stood round about him, he arose up and came into the city. And the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derba." 
Acts14:21 After they had preached (the Gospell) to that city, and (had) taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium and Antioche," 
Acts14:22 and strengthened the disciples souls, exhorting them to continue in the faith, affirming that we must thorow much adversity(tribulation) enter into the kingdom of God." 
Acts14:23 And when they had ordained them seniors(elders) by election in every congregation, after they had prayed and fasted, they commended them to God on whom they believed." 
Acts14:24 And they went over all(thorow out) Pisidia and came into Pamphilia," 
Acts14:25 and when they had preached the word of God in Perga, they descended into Attalia," 
Acts14:26 and thence departed by ship to Antioche, from whence they were delivered unto the grace of God, to the work which they had fulfilled." 
Acts14:27 When they were come and had gathered the congregation together, they rehearsed all that(and shewed them, how great things) God had done by them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles." 
Acts14:28 And there they abode long time with the disciples. 
Acts15:1 And there(Then) came certain from Jewry and taught the brethren: except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses ye cannot be saved. 
Acts15:2 Then arose there(And when there was risen) dissension and disputing not a little unto Paul and Barnabas against them. And they determined(ordained) that Paul and Barnabas and certain other of them should ascend(go up) to Jerusalem unto the apostles and seniors(elders) about this question. 
Acts15:3 (And) After they were brought on their way by the congregation, they passed over(went thorow) Phenices and Samaria, declaring the conversation(conversion) of the Gentiles, and they brought great joy unto all the brethren." 
Acts15:4 (And) When they were come to Jerusalem they were received of the congregation and of the apostles and seniors.(elders.) And they declared what things(told how great things) God had done by them. 
Acts15:5 Then arose there up certain of the sect of the pharisees, which did believe saying that it was needful to circumcise them and to enjoin them(command them,) to keep the law of Moses." 
Acts15:6 (And) The apostles and seniors(elders) came together to reason of this matter. 
Acts15:7 (And) When there was much disputing, Peter rose up and said unto them: Ye men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago, God chose among us that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel(gospell) and believe." 
Acts15:8 And God which knoweth the heart, bare them witness, and gave unto them the holy ghost, even as he did unto us;" 
Acts15:9 And he put no difference between them and us, and(but) with(thorow) faith purified their hearts." 
Acts15:10 Now therefore why tempt ye God, that ye would put a yoke on the disciples necks which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear:" 
Acts15:11 But we believe that thorow the grace of the Lord Jesu Christ we shall be saved as they do. 
Acts15:12 Then all the multitude was peaced and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul which told what signs(how great tokens) and wonders God had shewed among the gentiles by them. 
Acts15:13 As soon as(And whe) they held their peace, James answered saying: Men and brethren hearken unto me;" 
Acts15:13 As soon as(And whe) they held their peace, James answered saying: Men and brethren hearken unto me;" 
Acts15:14 Simeon told how God at the beginning did visit the gentiles, and received of them people unto his name." 
Acts15:15 And to this agreeth the words of the prophets, as it is written:" 
Acts15:16 After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of David which is fallen down, and that which is fallen in decay of it will I build again and I will set it up," 
Acts15:17 that the residue of men might seek after the Lord, and also the Gentiles upon whom my name is called(named) saith the Lord, which doth all these things:" 
Acts15:18 known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the world. 
Acts15:19 Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them which of(from among) the gentiles are turned to God:" 
Acts15:20 but that we write unto them, that they abstain themselves from filthiness of images, from fornication, from strangled, and from blood." 
Acts15:21 For Moses of old time in every city hath them that preach him, and he is read in the synagogues every Sabbath day." 
Acts15:22 Then pleased it the apostles and seniors(elders) with the whole congregation to send chosen men of their own company to Antioche with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called also Barsabas and Silas which were chief men among the brethren 
Acts15:23 and gave them letters in their hands after this manner. The apostles, seniors(elders) and brethren send greetings unto the brethren which are of the gentiles in Antioch, Syria and Cilicia." 
Acts15:24 Forasmuch as we have heard that certain which departed from us, have troubled you with words, and cumbered your minds saying: Ye must be circumcised and keep the law, to whom we gave no such commandment." 
Acts15:25 It seemed therefore to us a good thing, when we were come together with one accord, to send chosen men unto you, with our beloved Barnabas and Paul," 
Acts15:26 men that have jeoparded their lives, for the name of our Lord Jesus(Iesu) Christ." 
Acts15:27 We have sent therefore Judas and Sylas, which shall also tell you the same things by mouth." 
Acts15:28 For it seemed good to(pleased) the holy ghost and to us, to put no grievous thing to(lay no charge upon) you more than these necessary things,(points)" 
Acts15:29 that is to say, that ye abstain from things offered unto(to) images,(Idols) from blood, from strangled and fornication.(whoredom) From which if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. So fare ye well." 
Acts15:30 When they were departed, they came to Antioche and gathered the multitude together and delivered the pistel." 
Acts15:31 When they had read it, they rejoiced(were glad) of that consolation." 
Acts15:32 (And) Judas and Silas being prophets, exhorted the people(brethre) with much preaching, and strengthened them." 
Acts15:33 (And) After they had tarried there a certain space,(for a season) they were let go in peace of the brethren unto the apostles." 
Acts15:34 Notwithstanding it pleased Sylas to abide there still. (but Iudas departed alone to Ierusalem) 
Acts15:35 Paul and Barnabas continued in Antioche teaching, and preaching the word of the Lord with other many." 
Acts15:36 But after a certain space(days) Paul said unto Barnabas: Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city,(thorow all the cities) where we have shewed the word of the Lord, and see how they do." 
Acts15:37 (And) Barnabas gave counsel, to take with them John called also Marke:" 
Acts15:37 (And) Barnabas gave counsel, to take with them John called also Marke:" 
Acts15:37 (And) Barnabas gave counsel, to take with them John called also Marke:" 
Acts15:38 But(Howbeit) Paul thought it not meet to take him unto their company(with them) which departed from them at(in) Pamphilia, and went not with them to the work." 
Acts15:39 (And) So sharp was the dissension(strife) between them, that they departed asunder one from the other. And(so that) Barnabas took Mark and sailed unto Cypers." 
Acts15:39 (And) So sharp was the dissension(strife) between them, that they departed asunder one from the other. And(so that) Barnabas took Mark and sailed unto Cypers." 
Acts15:40 (And) Paul chose Sylas and departed delivered(being committed) of the brethren unto the grace of God. 
Acts15:41 And he went thorow all Cyria and Cilicia, stablishing the congregations. (commanding to keep the precepts of the Apostles and elders)" 
Acts16:1 Then came he to Derba and (to) Listra. And behold a certain disciple was there named Timotheus, a woman's son which was a jewess and believed, but his father was a greek." 
Acts16:2 Of whom reported well,(the same had a good report among) the brethren of Listra and of(at) Iconium." 
Acts16:3 (The same) Paul would that he should go forth with him, and took and circumcised him because of the jews which were in those quarters, for they knew all that his father was a greek." 
Acts16:4 As they went thorow the cities, they delivered them the decrees for(sentence) to keep, ordained(which was concluded) of the apostles and seniors(elders) which were at Jerusalem." 
Acts16:5 (And) So were the congregations stablished in the faith, and increased in number daily." 
Acts16:6 When they had gone(went) thorowout Phrigia and the region(land) of Galatia, and were forbidden of the holy ghost to preach the word in Asia," 
Acts16:7 they came to Misia, and sought to go into Bethinia, and(But) the spirit suffered them not." 
Acts16:8 When(Then) they went over Misia, and came down to Troada" 
Acts16:9 and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him saying: Come into(down to) Macedonia and help us. 
Acts16:10 After he had seen the vision immediately we prepared(sought) to go into Macedonia certified that the Lord had called us for(us thither) to preach the gospel(gospell) unto them. 
Acts16:11 Then loosed we forth(departed) from Troada, and with a straight course came we to Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolim," 
Acts16:12 and from thence to Philippos, which is the chiefest city in the parts of Macedonia and a free city. We were in that city abiding a certain days." 
Acts16:13 And on the Sabbath days we went out of the city besides a river where men were wont to pray, and we sat down and spake unto the women which thither resorted." 
Acts16:14 And a certain(devout) woman named Lidia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira which worshipped God, gave us audience,(hearkened to) whose heart God(the Lord) opened that she attended unto those(the) things which(gave heed unto the things that) Paul spake." 
Acts16:15 When she was baptised, and her household, she besought us saying: If ye think that I believe on the Lord come into my house, and abide there. And she constrained us." 
Acts16:16 (And) It fortuned as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit that prophesied(spirit of soothsaying) met us, which brought her master and masters much vantage with prophesying.(sooth saying)" 
Acts16:17 The same followed Paul and us (and cried) saying: These men are the servants of the most high God, which shew unto us the way of health.(salvation.)" 
Acts16:18 And this did she many days. But Paul not content turned about and said to the spirit: I command thee in the name of Jesu Christ that thou come(depart) out of her. And he came(departed) out the same hour. 
Acts16:19 (And) When her master and mastress saw that the hope of their gains(vantage) was gone, they caught(took) Paul and Silas, and brought(drew) them into the market place unto the(before the) rulers," 
Acts16:20 and delivered(brought) them to the officers saying: These men trouble our city, which are jews" 
Acts16:21 and shew new decrees,(preach ordinances) which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe seeing we are romans." 
Acts16:22 And the people ran on them, and the officers rent their clothes, and commanded them to be beaten with rods," 
Acts16:23 and when they had beaten them sore, they cast them into prison commanding the jailer to keep them surely.(diligently)" 
Acts16:24 Which (jailer) when he had received such commandment thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks." 
Acts16:25 At midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and lauded(praised) God. And the prisoners heard them." 
Acts16:26 (And) Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundation of the prison was shaken, and by and by all the doors opened, and every man's bonds were loosed.(lowsed)" 
Acts16:27 When the keeper of the prison waked out of his sleep, and saw the prison doors open, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing(for he thought) the prisoners had been fled." 
Acts16:28 (But) Paul cried with a loud voice saying: Do thyself no harm, for we are all here." 
Acts16:29 (Then) He called for a light and sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas," 
Acts16:30 and brought them out and said: Sirs what must I do to be saved? 
Acts16:31 And they said: believe on the Lord Jesus, and thou shalt be saved and thy household." 
Acts16:32 And they preached unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house." 
Acts16:33 And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds,(stripes) and was baptised with all that belonged unto him straight way.(immediately)" 
Acts16:34 When he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them, and joyed that he with all his household believed on God." 
Acts16:35 And when it was day the officers sent the ministers saying: Let those men go. 
Acts16:36 The keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul: the officers have sent word to loose you. Now therefore get you hence and go in peace. 
Acts16:37 Then said Paul unto them: They have beaten us openly uncondemned, for all that we are romans, and have cast us into prison: and now would they send us away privily? Nay not so, but let them come themselves and fetch us out." 
Acts16:38 (When) The ministers told these words unto the officers and they feared when they heard that they were romans," 
Acts16:39 and came and besought them, and brought them out, and desired(prayed) them to depart out of the city." 
Acts16:40 (And) They went out of the prison and entered into the house of Lidia, and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them and departed." 
Acts17:1 As they made their journey thorow Amphipolis, and Apolonia, they came to Thessalonica where was a synagogue of the jews." 
Acts17:2 (And) Paul as his manner was went in unto them, and three Sabbath days declared out of the scripture unto them," 
Acts17:3 opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered and risen again from death. And that this Jesus was Christ, whom (said he) I preach to you." 
Acts17:4 And some of them believed and came and companied with Paul and Silas. Also of the honorable greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women, not a few." 
Acts17:5 (But) The jews which believed not(stiffnecked jews) having indignation took unto them evil men which were vagabonds, and gathered a company, and set all the city on a roar, and made assault(pressed) unto the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people." 
Acts17:6 And(But) when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the heads of the city crying: These that trouble the world are come hither also," 
Acts17:7 which Jason hath received privily. And these all do contrary to the ordinations(elders) of Cesar, affirming(decrees of the Emperour, saying, that there is) another King, one Jesus." 
Acts17:8 And they troubled the people and the officers(rulers) of the city when they heard these things. 
Acts17:9 And when they were sufficiently answered(had received a sufficient answer) of Jason, and of the other they let them go." 
Acts17:10 (And) The brethren immediately sent away Paul, and Silas by night unto Berea.(Which) When they were come thither they entered(they came there, they went) into the Synagogue of the jews." 
Acts17:11 These were the noblest (of birth) among them of Thessalonia, which received the word with all diligence of mind,(marvelous willingly) and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were even so." 
Acts17:12 And many of them believed, and(also) of worshipful women which were greeks, and of men not a few." 
Acts17:13 When the jews of Thessalonia had knowledge that the word of God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither(there) and moved the people," 
Acts17:14 and then by and by the brethren sent away Paul to go unto(as it were to) the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still. 
Acts17:15 (And) They that guided Paul brought him unto Athens, and received a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him at once.(in all haist) And came their way." 
Acts17:16 While Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was moved in him to see the city given to worshipping of images." 
Acts17:17 Then he disputed in the synagogue with the jews, and with the devout persons; And in the market daily with them that came unto him." 
Acts17:18 Certain Philosophers of the Epicures, and of the Stoyckes disputed with him. And some there were which said: what will this babbler say. Other said: he seemeth to be a tidings bringer of new devils,(goddes) because he preached unto them Jesus,(Gospell of Iesus) and the resurrection," 
Acts17:19 and they took him, and brought him into Marce street(before the council house) saying: may we not know what is this new doctrine whereof thou speakest." 
Acts17:20 For thou bringest strange tidings to our ears. We would know therefore what these things mean. 
Acts17:21 For all the Athenians and strangers which were there gave themselves to nothing else, but either to tell or to hear new tidings." 
Acts17:22 Paul stood in the midst of Marce street(middes of the common place) and said, ye men of Athens, I perceive(see) that in all things ye are somewhat(too) superstitious." 
Acts17:23 For as I passed by and beheld the manner how ye worship your gods,(I have gone thorow, and seen your gods' service) I found an altar wherein was written: unto the unknown God. Whom ye then ignorantly worship, him shew I unto you:" 
Acts17:24 God that made the world, and all that are in it, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, he dwelleth not in temples made with hands" 
Acts17:25 neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed of any thing. Forasmuch as he giveth to all men life and breath every where,(seeing he himself giveth life and breath to all men everywhere)" 
Acts17:26 and hath made of one blood all nations(generations) of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth. And hath assigned times(borders) appointed before;(and hath assigned before, how long time) And (also) the ends of their inhabitation,(how long and far they should dwell)" 
Acts17:27 that they should seek God,(the LORDE) if they might feel and find him, though he be(And truly he is) not far from every one of us." 
Acts17:28 For in him we live, move, and have our being, as certain of your own poets said. For we are also his generation." 
Acts17:29 Forasmuch then as we are the generation of God, we ought not to think that the godhead is like unto gold, silver, or stone, graven by craft and(or imagery work of the craft or) imagination of man." 
Acts17:30 And the time of this ignorance God regarded not:(hath overseen) but now he biddeth all men everywhere (to) repent," 
Acts17:31 because he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world according to righteousness,(the compass of the world with righteousness) by that man, whom he hath appointed, and hath given(offered) faith to all men, after that he had raised him from death." 
Acts17:32 When they heard of the resurrection from death, some mocked, and other said: we will hear thee again of this matter." 
Acts17:33 So Paul departed from among them. 
Acts17:34 (Howbeit) Certain men clave unto Paul and believed, among the which was Dionysius a senator,(one of the council) and a woman named Damaris, and other with them." 
Acts18:1 After that, Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinthum," 
Acts18:2 and found a certain jew named Aquila, born in Ponthus, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla (because that the Emperor Claudius had commanded all jews to depart from Rome) and he drew unto them." 
Acts18:3 And because he was of the same craft he abode with them and wrought (their craft was to make tents.) 
Acts18:4 and he preached in the synagogue every Sabbath day; (setting forth in the mean while the name of the Lorde Iesus) And exhorted the Jews and the gentiles. 
Acts18:5 When Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia Paul was pained(constrained) by the spirit, as he testified(to testify) to the jews that Jesus was (very) Christ." 
Acts18:6 (And) When they said contrary and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them: your blood upon your own heads. (And) For henceforth I go (blameless) unto the gentiles," 
Acts18:7 and he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house named Justus which worshipped(a worshipper of) God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue." 
Acts18:8 One(Won, or Howbeit one) Crispus a ruler(the chief ruler) of the synagogue believed on the Lord with all his household. And many of the Corinthians gave audience and believed, and were baptised." 
Acts18:9 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision: be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace:" 
Acts18:10 for I am with thee, and no man shall invade thee that shall hurt thee. For I have much people in this city." 
Acts18:11 And he rested(continued) there a year and six months, and taught them the word of God." 
Acts18:12 When Gallio was ruler of the country of Acaia. The jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judge's(judgement) seat," 
Acts18:13 saying: This man teacheth(this fellow counceleth men) to worship God contrary to the law. 
Acts18:14 And as Paul was about to open his mouth Gallio said unto the jews: if it were a matter of wrong, or an evil deed (to ye) (O ye jews) reason would that I should hear you:" 
Acts18:15 but if it be a question of words, or of names, or of your law, look ye to it yourselves. For I will be no judge in such matters," 
Acts18:16 and he drave them from his(the) seat. 
Acts18:17 Then took all the greeks Sosthenes a(the chief) ruler of the Synagogue and smote him before the judge's seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things. 
Acts18:18 Paul after this, tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Ciria, Priscilla and Aquila accompanying him after that(.And) he shore his head in Cenchrea. For he had a vow." 
Acts18:19 And he came to Ephesus and left them there: but he himself entered into the Synagogue, and reasoned with the jews." 
Acts18:20 When they desired him to tarry longer time(season) with them, he consented not," 
Acts18:21 but bade them fare well saying: I must needs at this feast that cometh be in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you if God will. 
Acts18:22 And (he) departed from Ephesus and came unto Cesarea: and ascended and saluted the congregation," 
Acts18:23 and departed unto Antioche, and when he had tarried there a while, he departed, and went over(walked thorow) all the country of Galatacia and Phrigia by order, strengthening all the disciples." 
Acts18:24 And a certain jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria came to Ephesus. An eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures." 
Acts18:25 The same was informed in the way of the Lord, and he spake fervently in the spirit, and taught diligently the things of the Lord, and knew but the baptism of John only." 
Acts18:25 The same was informed in the way of the Lord, and he spake fervently in the spirit, and taught diligently the things of the Lord, and knew but the baptism of John only." 
Acts18:26 And the same began to speak boldly in the Synagogue. (And) When Priscilla and Aquila had heard him: they took him unto them; And expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. 
Acts18:27 (And) When he was disposed to go into Acaia, the brethren exhorted him thereto, and wrote unto(the brethren wrote exhorting) the disciples that they should(to) receive him. After he was come thither he helped them much, which had believed thorow grace." 
Acts18:28 And mightily he overcame the jews (and that) openly shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ. 
Acts19:1 It fortuned, while Apollos was at Corinthum, that Paul passed over(thorow) the upper coasts, and came to Ephesus, and found certain disciples" 
Acts19:2 and said unto them: have ye received the holy ghost after(since) ye believed? And they said unto him: No, neither have we heard if(no we have not heard whether) there be any holy ghost or no." 
Acts19:3 And he said unto them: wherewith were ye then baptised? And they said: With John's baptism. 
Acts19:3 And he said unto them: wherewith were ye then baptised? And they said: With John's baptism. 
Acts19:4 Then said Paul: John verily baptised with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on him, which should come after him. That is on Christ Jesus." 
Acts19:4 Then said Paul: John verily baptised with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on him, which should come after him. That is on Christ Jesus." 
Acts19:5 When they heard that, they were baptised in the name of the Lord Jesu,(Iesus.)" 
Acts19:6 and when Paul laid his hands upon them, (and) the holy ghost came on them. And they spake with tongues and prophesied;" 
Acts19:7 (and) All the men were about twelve. 
Acts19:8 And he went into the synagogue, and behaved himself boldly for the space of three months, disputing, and giving them exhortations of the kingdom of God." 
Acts19:9 When divers waxed hard hearted, and believed not, but spake evil of the way of the Lord (,and that) before the multitude: he departed from them; And severed(separated) the disciples away; And taught(disputed) daily in the school of one called Tirannus." 
Acts19:10 And this continued by the space of two years: So that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesu, both jews and greeks." 
Acts19:11 And God wrought not small miracles by the hands of Paul. 
Acts19:12 So that from his body were brought unto the sick, napkins or partlets, and the diseases and evil spirits departed from them.(and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.)" 
Acts19:13 (Then) Certain of the vagabond jews exorcists,(conjurers) took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus saying: We adjure you by Jesu whom Paul preacheth." 
Acts19:14 (And) There were seven sons of one Sceva a ruler of the synagogue(a Jew and chief of the priests) which did so: 
Acts19:15 and the evil spirit answered and said: Jesus I know, and Paul I know: but who are ye?" 
Acts19:16 And the man in whom the wicked devil(evil spirit) was, ran on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of the(that) house naked and wounded." 
Acts19:17 (And) This was known to all the jews and greeks also, which dwelt at Ephesus, and fear came on them all. And they magnified the name of the Lord Jesus." 
Acts19:18 And many that believed came, and confessed and shewed their works." 
Acts19:19 Many of them which used curious crafts, brought their books and burned them before all men, and they counted the price of them, and found it fifty thousand silverlings." 
Acts19:20 So mightily grew the word of God, and prevailed." 
Acts19:21 After these things were ended Paul purposed in the spirit, to pass over(take journey thorow) Macedonia and Acaia, and to go to Jerusalem saying: After I have been there I must also see Rome." 
Acts19:22 So sent he into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him: Timotheus and Erastus: but he himself remained in Asia. For a season. 
Acts19:23 The same time there arose no little a do about that way. 
Acts19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a goldsmith,(silversmith) which made silver shrines for Diana, was not a little beneficial(small vantage) unto the craftsmen:" 
Acts19:25 which he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and said: Sirs ye know that by this craft we have vantage." 
Acts19:26 Moreover ye see and hear that not alone at Ephesus: but almost thorow out all Asia, this Paul entiseth,(hath persuaded) and turned away much people saying: that they be not gods which are made with hands:" 
Acts19:27 so that not only this our craft cometh into peril to be set at nought: but that also the temple of (the) great (goddess) Diana should be despised. And her majesty(magnificence) should be destroyed, which all Asia, and the world worshippeth." 
Acts19:28 When they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and cried out saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians." 
Acts19:28 When they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and cried out saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians." 
Acts19:29 And all the city was on a roar, and they rushed into the common hall(open place) with one assent, and caught Gaius, and Aristarcus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions." 
Acts19:30 When Paul would have entered in unto the people, the disciples suffered him not." 
Acts19:31 Certain also of the chief of Asia which were his friends, sent unto him, desiring him that he would not press into the common hall." 
Acts19:32 Some cried one thing, and some another and the congregation was all out of quiet, and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together." 
Acts19:33 Some of the company drew forth Alexander (the jews thrusting him forwards) Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have given the people an answer." 
Acts19:34 When they knew that he was a jew, there arose a shout almost for the space of two hours of all men crying, great is Diana of the Ephesians." 
Acts19:34 When they knew that he was a jew, there arose a shout almost for the space of two hours of all men crying, great is Diana of the Ephesians." 
Acts19:35 When the town clerk had ceased the people he said: ye men of Ephesus: what man is it that knoweth not how that the city of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the image which came from heaven.(heavenly image?)" 
Acts19:35 When the town clerk had ceased the people he said: ye men of Ephesus: what man is it that knoweth not how that the city of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the image which came from heaven.(heavenly image?)" 
Acts19:36 Seeing then that no man saith here against, ye ought to be content, and to do nothing rashly;(without advisement)" 
Acts19:37 For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers of churches, nor yet despisers(blasphemers) of your goddess." 
Acts19:38 Wherefore if Demetrius and the craftsmen which are with him, have any saying to(ought to say unto) any man, the law is open, and there are rulers, let them accuse one another." 
Acts19:39 If ye go about any other thing, it may be determined in a lawful congregation." 
Acts19:40 For we are in jeopardy to be accused of this day's business.(uproar) Forasmuch as there is no cause whereby we may give a reckoning of this concourse of people.(and yet is there no man guilty, of whom we might give a reckoning of this uproar)" 
Acts19:41 And when he had thus spoken, he let the congregation depart." 
Acts20:1 After the rage(uproar) was ceased, Paul called the disciples unto him, and took his leave of them, and departed for to go into Macedonia." 
Acts20:2 And when he had gone over(thorow) those parts, and given them large exhortations,(exhorted them with many words) he came into Greece." 
Acts20:3 And there abode three months. (And) When the jews laid wait for him as he was about to sail into Syria; He purposed to return through Macedonia. 
Acts20:4 There accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea: And of Thessalonia Aristarcus and Secundus, and Gaius of Derba, and Timotheus: (and) Out of Asia Tychicus, and Trophimos." 
Acts20:5 These went before, and tarried us at Troas." 
Acts20:6 (And) We sailed away from Philippos after the ester holidays,(holy days) and came unto them to Troas in five days, where we abode(tarried there) seven days." 
Acts20:7 On a(And on the morrow after the) Sabbath day(Upon one [or first] of the Sabbaths) the disciples came together(to gedger) for to break bread, and Paul preached unto them (ready(willing) to depart on the morrow) and continued the preaching unto midnight." 
Acts20:8 (And) There were many lights in the chamber where we(they) were gathered together," 
Acts20:9 and there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutichus, fallen into a deep sleep. And as Paul declared(while Paul was speaking) he was the more overcome with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead." 
Acts20:10 Paul went down and fell on him, and embraced him, and said: Make nothing ado. For his life is in him." 
Acts20:11 When he was come up again, he brake bread, and tasted, and communed a long while even till the morning, and so departed." 
Acts20:12 (And) They brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted." 
Acts20:13 Then took we shipping, and departed(And we went afore to ship, and loosed) unto Asson, there to receive Paul. For so had he appointed, and would himself go by land.(a foot.)" 
Acts20:14 When he was come to us unto Asson, we took him in, and came to Mittilenes." 
Acts20:15 And (we) sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios. And the day following(next day) we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogilon. The next day we came to Mileton." 
Acts20:16 For Paul had determined to leave Ephesus as they sailed, because he would not spend the time in Asia. For he hasted to be (if he were possible)(could possibly) at Jerusalem at the day of Pentecost." 
Acts20:17 (Wherefore) From Mileton he sent to Ephesus, and called the seniors(elders) of the congregation." 
Acts20:18 (And) When they were come to him, he said to(unto) them: Ye know from the first day that I came unto Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons," 
Acts20:19 serving God(the Lord) with all humbleness of mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which happened unto me by the layings wait of the jews," 
Acts20:20 and how I kept back nothing that might be for your profit:(was profitable:) but that I have shewed you, and taught you openly and at home in your houses," 
Acts20:21 witnessing(And have testified) both to the jews, and also to the greeks, the repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesu." 
Acts20:22 And now behold I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, and know not what shall come of(on) me there," 
Acts20:23 but that the holy ghost witnesseth in every city saying: that bonds and trouble abide me: 
Acts20:24 but none of those things move me. Neither is my life dear unto myself, that I might fulfil my course with joy, and the ministration (of the worde) which I have received of the Lord Jesu to testify the gospel(gospell) of the grace of God." 
Acts20:25 And now behold, I am sure that henceforth ye all (thorow whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God) shall see my face no more." 
Acts20:26 Wherefore I take you to record this same day, that I am pure from the blood of all men." 
Acts20:27 For I have kept nothing back: but have shewed you all the counsel of God. 
Acts20:28 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, whereof the holy ghost hath made you overseers, to rule the congregation of God, which he hath purchased with his blood." 
Acts20:29 For I am sure of this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, which will not spare the flock." 
Acts20:30 And(Moreover) of your own selves shall men arise speaking perverse things,(perverse doctrine) to draw disciples after them." 
Acts20:31 Therefore awake and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one of you, both night and day with tears." 
Acts20:32 And now dear brethren I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build further,(is mighty to edify you) and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified." 
Acts20:33 I have desired no man's silver, gold, or vesture." 
Acts20:34 Ye know well that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me." 
Acts20:35 I have shewed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to receive the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesu, how that he said: It is more blessed to give, than to receive." 
Acts20:36 When he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with them all." 
Acts20:37 And they wept all abundantly,(much weeping among them all) and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him" 
Acts20:38 sorrowing, most of all, for the words, which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship." 
Acts21:1 And it chanced that as soon as we had launched forth, and were departed from them, we came with a straight course unto Choon, and the day following unto the Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara." 
Acts21:2 And we found a ship ready to sail unto Phenices, and went aboard and set forth." 
Acts21:3 Then appeared unto us(when we came within the sight of) Cyprus, and we left it on the left hand, and sailed unto Syria, and came unto Tyre. For there the ship unladed her burden.(ship should lay forth the ware)" 
Acts21:4 And when we had found brethren,(disciples) we tarried there seven days. And they told Paul thorow the spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:5 And when the days were ended we departed, and went our ways, and they all brought us on our way, with their wives and children, till we were come out of the city. And we kneeled down in the shore and prayed." 
Acts21:6 And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship, and they returned home again." 
Acts21:7 When we had full ended the course, from Tyre, we arrived at Ptholomaida, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day." 
Acts21:8 The next day, we that were of Paulus company, (departed and) came unto Cesarea. And we entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, which was one of the seven, (deacons) and abode with him." 
Acts21:9 The same man had four daughters virgins, which did prophesy." 
Acts21:10 And as we tarried there a good many days, there came a certain prophet from Jewry,(Iurie) named Agabus." 
Acts21:11 When he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound his hands and feet and said: Thus saith the holy ghost: So shall the jews at Jerusalem, bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the gentiles." 
Acts21:12 When we heard this, both we and other of the same place, besought him, that he would not go up to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:13 Then Paul answered, and said: What do ye weeping, and breaking mine heart? I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesu." 
Acts21:14 When we could not turn his mind,(not be persuaded) we ceased saying: The will of the Lord be fulfilled." 
Acts21:15 After those days we made ourselves ready, and went up to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:16 There went with us also certain of his disciples of Cesarea, and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge." 
Acts21:17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly." 
Acts21:18 (And) On the morrow Paul went in with us unto James. And all the seniors(elders) came together. 
Acts21:18 (And) On the morrow Paul went in with us unto James. And all the seniors(elders) came together. 
Acts21:19 And when he had saluted them, he told by order, what(all) things (that) God had wrought among the gentiles by his ministration." 
Acts21:20 (And) When they heard it, they glorified(praised) the Lord, and said unto him: Thou seest brother, how many thousand jews there are which believe, and they are all zealous over the law." 
Acts21:21 And they are informed of thee that thou teachest all the jews which are among the gentiles to forsake Moses, and sayest that they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to live after the customs." 
Acts21:22 What is it therefore? The multitude must needs come together. For they shall hear that thou art come. 
Acts21:23 Do therefore this that we say to thee. We have four men, which have a vow on them." 
Acts21:24 Them take and purify thyself with them, and do cost on them, that they may shave their heads and all shall know that those things which they have heard of(concerning) thee are nothing: but that thou thyself also walkest and keepest the law." 
Acts21:25 (For) As touching the gentiles which believe we have written and concluded, that they observe no such things: but that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, from blood, from strangled, and from fornication.(whoredom)" 
Acts21:26 Then the next day Paul took the men and purified himself with them, and entered into the temple, declaring the(that he) fulfilling of(observed) the days of (the) purification, until that an oblation(offering) should be offered for every one of them." 
Acts21:27 And as the seven days should have been ended,(were almost fulfilled) the jews which were of Asia when they saw him in the temple, they moved all the people and laid hands on him crying:" 
Acts21:28 Men of Israel help. This is the man that teacheth all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and this place. Moreover also he hath brought greeks into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place." 
Acts21:29 For they saw one Trophimus an Ephesian with him in the city. Him they supposed(thought that) Paul had brought into the temple. 
Acts21:30 And all the city was moved, and the people swarmed together. And they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple, and forthwith the doors were shut to." 
Acts21:31 As they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the high(hye) captain of the soldiers, that all Jerusalem was moved." 
Acts21:32 Which immediately took soldiers and under-captains, and ran down unto them. When they saw the upper-captain and the soldiers; They left smiting of Paul." 
Acts21:33 Then the captain came near and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains, and demanded(asked) what he was, and what he had done." 
Acts21:34 (And) One cried this, another that, among the people. And when he could not know the certainty, for the rage: He commanded him to be carried into the castle." 
Acts21:35 (And) When he came unto a greece, it fortuned that he was borne of the soldiers for(because of) the violence of the people." 
Acts21:36 (For) The multitude of the people followed after crying: away with him. 
Acts21:37 And as Paul should have been carried into the castle; He said unto the high(hye) captain: May I speak unto thee? Which said: Canst thou speak greek? 
Acts21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian which before these days, made an uproar, and led out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers?" 
Acts21:39 (But) Paul said: I am a man which am a jew of Tharsus a city in Cicill, a citizen of no vile city, I beseech thee suffer me to licence;(to speak unto the people.)" 
Acts21:40 (When he had given him licence,) Paul stood on the steps, and beckoned with the hand unto the people, and there was made a great silence. And he spake unto them in (the) Hebrew (tongue) saying:" 
Acts22:1 Ye men, brethren, and fathers, hear mine answer which I make unto you." 
Acts22:2 When they heard that he spake (in the) Hebrew (tongue) unto(to) them, they kept the more silence." 
Acts22:3 And he said: I am verily a man which am a jew, born in Tharsus, a city in Cicill, nevertheless yet brought up in this city, at the feet of Gamaliel, and informed diligently in the law of the fathers, and was fervent minded to Godward, as ye all are this same day," 
Acts22:4 and I persecuted this way unto the death binding, and delivering into prison both men and women," 
Acts22:5 as the chief priest doth bear me witness, and all the seniors:(elders:) of whom also I received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damasco to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem for to be punished." 
Acts22:6 And it fortuned that as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damasco, about noon, (that) suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me," 
Acts22:7 and I fell unto the earth, and heard a voice saying unto me. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" 
Acts22:8 And I answered: what art thou Lord? and he said unto me? I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest." 
Acts22:9 And they that were with me saw verily a light and were afraid: but they heard not the voice of him that spake with me. 
Acts22:10 And I said: what shall I do Lord? And the Lord said unto me: Arise and go into Damasco and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do. 
Acts22:11 And when I saw nothing for the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand of them that were with me, and came into Damasco." 
Acts22:12 (And) One Ananias a perfect man, and as pertaining to the law having good report of all the jews which there dwelt," 
Acts22:13 came unto me, and stood and said unto me: Brother Saul receive thy sight.(look up.) And that same hour I received my sight and saw him." 
Acts22:14 And he said unto me, the God of our fathers hath ordained thee before, that thou shouldest know his will, and shouldest see that which is rightful, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth:(mought)" 
Acts22:15 for thou shalt be his witness unto all men of those things which thou hast seen and heard. 
Acts22:16 And now: why tarriest thou? Arise and be baptised, and wash away thy sins, in calling on the name of the Lord." 
Acts22:17 And it fortuned, when I was come again to Jerusalem and prayed in the temple, that I was in a trance;" 
Acts22:18 And saw him saying unto me: Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive the(thy) witness that thou bearest of me." 
Acts22:19 And I said: Lord they know that I prisoned, and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee." 
Acts22:20 And when the blood of thy witness Stephen was shed, I also stood by, and consented unto his death and kept the raiment of them that slew him." 
Acts22:21 And he said unto me: depart for I will send thee afar hence unto the gentiles. 
Acts22:22 They gave him audience unto this word, and (then) lifted up their voices and said: away with such a fellow from the earth: it is pity(for it is not reason) that he should live." 
Acts22:23 And (as) they cried and cast off their clothes, and threw dust into the air." 
Acts22:24 The captain bade him to be brought into the castle, and commanded him to be scourged,(beaten with rods) and to be examined, that he might know wherefore they cried on him." 
Acts22:25 And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto an under-captain:(the centurion that stood by:) Is it lawful for you to scourge a (man that is a) roman (and) uncondemned?" 
Acts22:26 When the centurion heard that, he went to the upper-captain, and told him saying: What intendest thou to do? This man is a roman.(a citizen of Rome)" 
Acts22:27 (Then) The upper-captain came to him, and said: Tell me, art thou a roman? He said: Yea." 
Acts22:28 And the (hye) captain answered: With much money(a great sum) obtained I this freedom. And Paul said: I was freeborn.(I am a Roman born) 
Acts22:29 Then straightway departed from him they which should have examined him. And the (high) captain also was afraid, after he knew that he was a roman: because he had bound him." 
Acts22:30 On the morrow he loosed(lowsed) him from his bonds desiring to know the certainty for what cause he was accused of the jews, and commanded the high priests and all the council to come together, and brought Paul, and set him before them." 
Acts23:1 Paul beheld the council and said: Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day." 
Acts23:2 The high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by, to smite him on the mouth.(mought)" 
Acts23:3 Then said Paul to him: God shall smite thee thou painted wall. Sittest thou and judgest me after the law: and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law? 
Acts23:4 And they that stood by said: Revilest thou God's(Goddes) high priest? 
Acts23:5 Then said Paul: I wist not brethren, that he was the high priest. For it is written thou shalt not speak evil to (curse) the ruler of thy people." 
Acts23:6 When Paul perceived that the one part were sadducees, and the other pharisees: He cried out in the council. Men and brethren I am a pharisaye, the son of a pharisaye. Of hope, and of resurrection from death I am judged." 
Acts23:7 And when he had so said, there arose a debate(dissension) between the pharisees and the sadducees, and the multitude was divided." 
Acts23:8 For the sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit. But the pharisees grant both." 
Acts23:9 And there arose a great cry, and the scribes which were of the pharisees' part (,arose and) strove saying: We find none evil in this man. Though a spirit, or an angel hath appeared to him, let us not strive against God." 
Acts23:10 And when there arose great debate,(dissension) the captain fearing lest Paul should have been plucked asunder of them, commanded the soldiers to go down, and to take him from among them, and to bring him into the castle." 
Acts23:11 The night following God stood by him and said: Be of good cheer Paul: For as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness(testify) at Rome." 
Acts23:12 When day was come, certain of the jews gathered themselves together,(togeder) and made a vow saying: that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul." 
Acts23:13 They were about forty which had made this conspiration. 
Acts23:14 And they came to the chief priest and seniors,(elders) and said: we have bound ourselves with a vow, that we will eat nothing until we have slain Paul." 
Acts23:15 Now therefore give ye knowledge to the upper captain, and to the council that he bring him forth unto us tomorrow, as though we would know some thing more perfectly of him. But we (or ever he come near) are ready in the mean season to kill him." 
Acts23:16 When Paul's sister's son heard of their laying await, he went and entered into the castle, and told Paul." 
Acts23:17 And Paul called one of the under captains unto him, and said: Bring this young man unto the (hye) captain: for he hath a certain thing to shew him." 
Acts23:18 And he took him, and led him to the high captain, and said: Paul the prisoner called me unto him and prayed me to bring this young man unto thee, which hath a certain matter to shew thee." 
Acts23:19 The high captain took him by the hand, and went apart with him out of the way: and asked him: what hast thou to say unto me?" 
Acts23:20 And he said: the jews are determined(agreed together) to desire thee that thou wouldest bring forth Paul tomorrow into the council, as though they would enquire somewhat of him more perfectly." 
Acts23:21 But follow not their minds: for there lay await(lie in wait) for him of them, more than forty men, which have bound themselves with a vow, that they will neither(nether) eat nor(ner) drink till they have killed him. And now are they ready, and look for thy promise." 
Acts23:22 The upper captain let the young man depart and charged him: See thou tell (it out to) no man that thou hast told me this.(shewed these things to me.) 
Acts23:23 And he called unto him two under captains, saying: make ready two hundred soldiers to go to Cesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten. And spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night." 
Acts23:24 And deliver them beasts that they may put Paul on, and bring him safe unto Felix the high deputy,(debite) (For he did fear lest happily the Iewes should take him away and kill him, and him self should be afterward blamed, as though he would take money)" 
Acts23:25 and wrote a letter in this manner. 
Acts23:26 Claudius Lisias unto the most mighty ruler Felix sendeth greetings. 
Acts23:27 This man was taken of the jews, and should have been killed of them:(would have slain him) Then came I with soldiers, and rescued him, and perceived that he was a roman." 
Acts23:28 And when I would have known the cause, wherefore they accused him, I brought him forth into their council." 
Acts23:29 There perceived I that he was accused of questions of their law: but was not guilty of any thing(But there was no accusation) worthy of death, or of bonds." 
Acts23:30 Afterward when it was shewed me how that the jews laid wait for the man, I sent him straight way to thee, and gave commandment to his accusers, if they had ought against him, to tell it unto thee: fare well." 
Acts23:31 (Then) The soldiers as it was commanded them, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatras." 
Acts23:32 On the morrow(next day) they left horsemen to go with him, and returned unto the castle." 
Acts23:33 (Which) When they came to Cesarea, they delivered the pistel to the deputy,(debite) and presented Paul before him." 
Acts23:34 When the deputy(debite) had read the letter, he asked of what country he was. And when he understood that he was of Cicill;" 
Acts23:35 I will hear thee (said he) when thine accusers are come also: And commanded him to be kept in Herod's palace.(judgment house) 
Acts24:1 After five days, Ananias the high priest descended, with seniors,(elders) and with a certain orator named Tartullus, and enformed the ruler against(of) Paul." 
Acts24:2 When Paul was called forth; Tartullus began to accuse him saying: Seeing that we live in great quietness by the means of thee and that many good things are done unto this nation thorow thy providence: 
Acts24:3 that allow we ever and in all places, most mighty Felix with all thanks." 
Acts24:4 Notwithstanding, lest(that) I be not tedious unto thee, I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy courtesy a few words." 
Acts24:5 We have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of debate(sedition) among(unto) all the jews thorow out the world; And a maintainer (of sedition) of the sect of the Nazarens:" 
Acts24:6 Which(and) also hath enforced to pollute(taken in hand also to suspend) the temple, whom we took and would have judged according to our law:" 
Acts24:7 but the high captain Lisias came upon us, and with great violence took(delivered) him(away) out of our hands," 
Acts24:8 commanding his accusers to come unto thee, of whom thou mayest (if thou wilt enquire) know the certain(have knowledge) of all these things where of we accuse him." 
Acts24:9 The jews likewise affirmed, saying that it was even so." 
Acts24:10 Then Paul (after that the ruler himself had beckoned unto him that he should speak) answered: I shall with a more quiet mind answer for myself, forasmuch as I understand that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this people," 
Acts24:11 because that thou mayest know that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to pray.(worship) 
Acts24:12 And that they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, either raising up(or making any uproar among) the people, neither in the synagogues nor in the city." 
Acts24:13 Neither can they prove the things whereof they accuse me. 
Acts24:14 But this I confess unto thee, that after that way (which they call heresy) so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and the prophets," 
Acts24:15 and have hope towards God, that the same resurrection from death (which they themselves look for also) shall be both of just and unjust." 
Acts24:16 And therefore study I to have a clear conscience toward God, and toward man also." 
Acts24:17 (But after) Many years ago I came and brought alms to my people and offerings, (and vows)" 
Acts24:18 in the which they found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor yet with unquietness. (and they took me, and cried, saying, away with our enemye)" 
Acts24:19 (Howbeit) There were certain jews out of Asia which ought to be here present before thee, and accuse me, if they had ought against me:" 
Acts24:20 or else let these same here say, if they have found any evildoing(unrighteousness) in me, while I stand here in(before) the council," 
Acts24:21 except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them of the resurrection from death am I judged of you this day." 
Acts24:22 When Felix heard that(these things) he deferred them, for he knew very well of that way and said: when Lisias the captain is come, I will know the utmost of your matters." 
Acts24:23 And he commanded an under-captain to keep Paul, and that he should have rest, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister unto him, or to come unto him." 
Acts24:24 (And) After a certain days came Felix, and his wife Drusilla which was a jewess, and called forth Paul, and heard him of the faith which is toward Christ." 
Acts24:25 And as he preached of Justice,(righteousness) temperance, and judgement to come; Felix trembled, and answered: thou hast done enough at this time, depart, when I have a convenient time, I will send for thee." 
Acts24:26 He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul that he might loose him, wherefore he called him the oftener, and communed with him." 
Acts24:27 (But) After two year came Festus Porcius into Felix room, and Felix willing to shew the jews a pleasure left Paul in prison bound." 
Acts25:1 When Festus was come into the province, after three days, he ascended from Cesarea unto Jerusalem." 
Acts25:2 Then enformed him the high priests, and the chief of the jews against (of) Paul. And they entreated(besought) him," 
Acts25:3 and desired favour against him that he would send for him to Jerusalem, and laid wait for him in the way to kill him." 
Acts25:4 Festus answered that Paul should be kept at Cesarea: but that he himself would shortly depart thither. 
Acts25:5 Let them therefore (said he) which among you are able to do it come down with us and accuse him, if there be any fault in the man." 
Acts25:6 When he had tarried there more than ten days he departed unto Cesarea, and the next day sat down in the judgement seat, and commanded Paul to be brought." 
Acts25:7 When he was come the jews which were come from Jerusalem, came about him and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul, which they could not prove" 
Acts25:8 as long as he answered for himself, that he had neither against the law of the jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Cesar offended any thing at all." 
Acts25:9 Festus willing to do the jews a pleasure, answered Paul, and said: Wilt thou go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?" 
Acts25:10 Then said Paul: I stand at Cesar's judgement seat, where I ought to be judged. To the jews have I no harm done, as thou verily well knowest." 
Acts25:11 If I have hurt them, or committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die. If none of these things are, where of they accuse me, no man ought to deliver me to them. I appeal unto Cesar.(the Emperour)" 
Acts25:12 Then spake Festus with deliberation,(the Council) and answered: Thou hast appealed unto Cesar: unto Cesar shalt thou go." 
Acts25:13 After a certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Cesarea to salute Festus. 
Acts25:14 And when they had been there a good season, Festus rehearsed Paul's cause unto the king saying: There is a certain man left in prison of Felix" 
Acts25:15 about whom when I came to Jerusalem the high priests, and seniors(elders) of the jews enformed me, and desired to have judgement against him." 
Acts25:16 To whom I answered: It is not the manner of the romans to deliver any man that he should perish, before that he which is accused, have the accusers before him,(presence) and have license(receive liberty) to answer for himself, as pertaining to the crime whereof he is accused:(concerning the crime laid against him:)" 
Acts25:17 when they were come hither, without delay on the morrow(next day) I sat to give judgement, and commanded the man to be brought forth." 
Acts25:18 Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed:" 
Acts25:19 But had certain questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus which was dead; whom Paul affirmed to be alive." 
Acts25:20 (And) Because I doubted(understood not) of the(such manner) questions, I asked him whither he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these matters." 
Acts25:21 Then when Paul had appealed to be kept unto the knowledge of Cesar. I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Cesar. 
Acts25:22 Agrippa said unto Festus: I would also hear the man myself. Tomorrow (said he) thou shalt hear him. 
Acts25:23 (And) On the morrow when Agrippa was come and Bernice with great pomp, and were entered into the council house with the captains and chief men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul was brought forth," 
Acts25:24 and Festus said: King Agrippa, and all men which are here present with us: Ye see this man about whom all the multitude of (the) jews have been with me, both at Jerusalem and also here, crying that he ought not to live any longer." 
Acts25:25 Yet found(perceived) I nothing worthy of death that he had committed. Nevertheless seeing that he hath appealed to Cesar, I have determined to send him." 
Acts25:26 Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord. Wherefore I have brought him unto you, and specially unto thee, king Agrippa, that after examination had, I might have somewhat to write." 
Acts25:27 For me thinketh it unreasonable for to send a prisoner, and not to shew the causes, which are laid against him." 
Acts26:1 Agrippa said unto Paul: Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth his (the) hand, and answered for himself:" 
Acts26:2 I think myself happy King Agrippa, because I shall answer this day before thee of all the things whereof I am accused of the jews," 
Acts26:3 namely because thou art expert in all customs, and questions, which are among the jews. Wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently." 
Acts26:4 My living of a child, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem know all the jews" 
Acts26:5 which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify it. For after the most straitest sect of our lay, lived I a pharisaye" 
Acts26:6 and now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers 
Acts26:7 unto which promise, our twelve tribes instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, king Agrippa am I accused of the jews." 
Acts26:8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible unto you, if God(that God should) raise again the dead?" 
Acts26:9 I also verily thought in myself, that I ought to do many contrary things, clean against the name of Jesus of Nazareth:" 
Acts26:10 which things I also did in Jerusalem. And(Where) many of the saints shut I (up) in prison, moreover I(and had) received authority of the high priests: And when they were put to death I gave the sentence." 
Acts26:11 And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme: and was yet more(was exceeding) mad upon them, (and persecuted them) even unto strange cities." 
Acts26:12 About the which things as I went to Damasco with authority, and commission from (license of) the high priests," 
Acts26:13 even at mid day (king Agrippa)(O king) I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shine round about me and them, which journeyed with me." 
Acts26:14 When we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the prick." 
Acts26:15 And I said: Who art thou Lord? And he said: I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: 
Acts26:16 But rise and stand up on thy feet. For I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee(ordain thee to be) a minister, and a witness both of those things which thou hast seen, and of those things in thee which I will (yet cause to) appear unto thee," 
Acts26:17 delivering thee from the people, and from the gentiles, unto thee which now I send thee," 
Acts26:18 to open their eyes that they might turn from darkness unto light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith in me." 
Acts26:19 Wherefore king Agrippa, I was not disobedient(faithless) unto the heavenly vision:" 
Acts26:20 but shewed first unto them of Damasco, and at Jerusalem, and thorowout all the coasts of Jewry, and to the gentiles, that they should repent, and turn to God, and do the right works of repentance." 
Acts26:21 For this cause the jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me." 
Acts26:22 Nevertheless I obtained help of God, and stood(continue) unto this day witnessing(and testify) both to small and to great, saying none other things, than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come," 
Acts26:23 that Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from death, and should shew light unto the people, and to the gentiles." 
Acts26:24 As he thus answered for himself: Festus said with a loud voice: Paul, thou art besides thyself. Much learning hath made thee mad." 
Acts26:25 And Paul said: I am not mad most dear Festus: but speak the words of truth and soberness. 
Acts26:26 The king knoweth of these things, before whom I speak freely: neither think I that any of these things are hidden from him. For this thing was not done in a corner." 
Acts26:27 King Agrippa believest thou the prophets? I wot well(know) thou believest. 
Acts26:28 Agrippa said unto Paul: Somewhat thou bringest me in mind for(Thou persuadest me in a part) to become christen.(for to be come a Christen) 
Acts26:29 And Paul said: I would to God that not only thou: but also all that hear me today, were not somewhat only, but altogether such as I am except these bonds.((not only in a part but alltogether,) I might persuade not thee only, but all them that hear me this day, to be such as I am, these bonds except)" 
Acts26:30 And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the deputy,(debite) and Bernice, and they that sat with them." 
Acts26:31 And when they were gone apart, they talked between themselves saying: This man doth nothing worthy of death, nor of bonds." 
Acts26:32 Then said Agrippa unto Festus: This man might have been loosed(lowsed) if he had not appealed unto Cesar.(the Emperour) 
Acts27:1 When it was concluded that we should sail into Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, an under-captain of Cesar's soldiers." 
Acts27:2 And we entered into a ship of Adramicium, and loosed(lowsed) from land, appointed to sail by the coasts of Asia, one Aristarcus out of Macedonia, of the country of Thessalia, being with us." 
Acts27:3 (And) The next day came we to Sidon, and Julius courteously entreated Paul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends, and to refresh himself." 
Acts27:4 And from thence launched we and sailed hard by Cypers, because the winds were contrary." 
Acts27:5 Then sailed we over the sea of Cicill,(Cilicia) and Pamphylia, and came to Myra a city in Lycia." 
Acts27:6 And there the under-captain found a ship of Alexandry ready to sail into Italy, and put us therein," 
Acts27:7 and when we had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were come over against Gnydon (because the wind withstood us) we sailed hard by the coast of Candy, over against Salmo," 
Acts27:8 and with much work sailed beyond it, and came unto a place called Goode port. Nigh(Nye) whereunto was a city called Lasea." 
Acts27:9 When much time was spent and sailing was now jeopardous, because also that we had overlong fasted, Paul put them in remembrance,(exhorted them)" 
Acts27:10 and said unto them: Sirs I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and (much) damage, not of the lading and ship only: but also of our lives." 
Acts27:11 But(Neverthelater) the under-captain believed the governor, and the master, better than those things which were spoken of Paul." 
Acts27:12 And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, many took counsel to depart thence, if by any means they might attain to Phenices and there to winter, which haven pertaineth to(is an haven of) Candy, and serveth to the southwest, and northwest wind." 
Acts27:13 When the south wind blew, they supposing to obtain their purpose loosed(lowsed) unto Asson, and sailed past all Candy." 
Acts27:14 But anon after there arose (against their purpose) a flaw of wind out of the northeast. 
Acts27:15 (And) When the ship was caught, and could not resist the wind, we let her go and drave with the weather." 
Acts27:16 (And) We came unto an isle named Clauda; And had much work to come by a boat," 
Acts27:17 which they took up, and used help undergirding the ship, fearing lest we should have fallen into Syrtes, and we let down a vessel and so were carried." 
Acts27:18 The next day when we were tossed with an exceeding tempest, they lightened the ship,(made an outcasting)" 
Acts27:19 and the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship. 
Acts27:20 When at the last neither sun nor star in many days appeared; And no small tempest lay upon us, all hope that we should be saved, was (then) taken away." 
Acts27:21 Then after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them and said: Sirs ye should have heard(hearkened to) me, and not have departed(lowsed) from Candy, neither to have brought unto us this harm and loss." 
Acts27:22 And now I exhort you to be of goad cheer, for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you: But(save) of the ship only." 
Acts27:23 For there stood by me this night the angel of God whose I am, and whom I serve," 
Acts27:24 saying: fear not Paul, for thou must be brought before Cesar. And lo, God hath given unto thee all that are in the ship(sail) with thee," 
Acts27:25 wherefore sirs be of good cheer, for I believe God that so it shall be even as it was told me," 
Acts27:26 and(Howbeit) we must be cast into a certain island. 
Acts27:27 But when the fourteenth night was come as we were carried in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that there appeared some country unto them," 
Acts27:28 and they sounded, and found it twenty fathoms; (And when) they went(had gone) a little further and(they) sounded again, and found fifteen fathoms." 
Acts27:29 Then fearing lest they should have fallen on some Rocke, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day." 
Acts27:30 As the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, and had let down the boat into the sea, under a colour as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship:" 
Acts27:31 Paul said unto the under-captain and the soldiers: except these abide in the ship ye cannot be safe. 
Acts27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the rope of the boat, and let it fall away." 
Acts27:33 And in the meantime, betwixt that and day, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying: this is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and continued fasting receiving nothing at all," 
Acts27:34 wherefore I pray you to take meat: for this no doubt is for your health, for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you." 
Acts27:35 And when he had thus spoken he took bread and gave thanks to God in presence of(before) them all, and brake it, and began to eat." 
Acts27:36 Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took meat." 
Acts27:37 We were all together in the ship, two hundred and three score and sixteen souls." 
Acts27:38 (And) When they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship and cast out the wheat into the sea." 
Acts27:39 When it was day they knew not the land, but they spied a certain reach(haven) with a bank, into the which they were minded (if it were possible) to thrust in the ship." 
Acts27:40 And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves unto the sea, and loosed(lowsed) the rudder bonds and hoised up the main sail to the wind and drew to(toward) land," 
Acts27:41 but they fell into(chanced on) a place, which had the sea on both the sides, and thrust in the ship. And the fore part stuck fast, and moved not, but the hinder part brake with the violence of the waves." 
Acts27:42 The soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners lest any of them, when he had swum out should flee away:" 
Acts27:43 but the under-captain willing to save Paul kept them from their purpose, and commanded that they that could swim should cast themselves first in to the sea, and scape to land." 
Acts27:44 And the other he commanded to go, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they came all safe to land." 
Acts28:1 And when they were scaped (,then) they knew that the isle was called Mileta." 
Acts28:2 (And) The people of the country shewed us no little kindness, for they kindled a fire and received us every one because of the present rain, and because of cold." 
Acts28:3 (And) When Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks; And put them into the fire, a viper (because of the heat) crept out(there came a viper out of the heat and) leapt on his hand." 
Acts28:4 When the men of the country saw the worm hang on his hand, they said among themselves: this man must needs be a murderer: Whom (though he have escaped the sea) yet vengeance suffereth not to live." 
Acts28:5 And(But) he shook off the vermin into the fire, and felt no harm." 
Acts28:6 (Howbeit) They waited when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly. But after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a God." 
Acts28:7 In the same quarters, the chief man of the isle whose name was Publius, had a lordship: which(the same) received us, and lodged us three days courteously." 
Acts28:8 (And) It fortuned that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever, and of a bloody flux to whom Paul entered in and prayed, and laid his hands on him and healed him." 
Acts28:9 When this was done, other also which had diseases in the isle, came and were healed:" 
Acts28:10 And they did us great honour. And when we departed, they laded us with things necessary." 
Acts28:11 After three months we departed in a ship of Alexandry, which had wintered in the isle, whose badge was Castor and Pollux." 
Acts28:12 And when we came to Ciracusa, we tarried there three days," 
Acts28:13 (And) from whence(thence) we sailed about(fetched a compass) and came to Regium. And after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to Putiolus" 
Acts28:14 where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven days, and so came we to Rome." 
Acts28:15 And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came (against us) to Apiphorum, and (to the) three taverns, and met us. When Paul saw them he thanked God, and waxed bold." 
Acts28:16 (And) When he came to Rome, the under-captain delivered the prisoners to the chief captain of the host: but Paul was suffered to dwell alone(by himself) with one Soldier that kept him." 
Acts28:17 (And) It fortuned after three days (that) Paul called the chief of the jews together.(to gether) (And) When they were come, he said unto them: Men and brethren, though I have committed no thing against the people, or laws of our fathers: yet was I delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the romans." 
Acts28:18 Which when they had examined me, would have let me go, because they found no cause of death in me:" 
Acts28:19 but when the jews cried contrary: I was constrained to appeal unto Cesar. Not because(not as though) I had ought to accuse my people of. 
Acts28:20 For this cause have I called for you (,even) to see you, and to speak with you. For I because of(that for) the hope of Israel, (I) am bound with this chain." 
Acts28:21 And they said unto him: We neither received letters out of Jewry pertaining unto thee, neither came any of the brethren that shewed or spake any harm of thee." 
Acts28:22 But we will hear of thee what thou thinkest. For we have heard of this sect, that everywhere it is spoken against." 
Acts28:23 (And) When they had appointed him a day, there came many unto him into his lodging: to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God; and preached unto them of Jesu: both by(out of) the law of Moses, and also out by(of) the prophets (,even) from morning to night.(until the even)" 
Acts28:24 And some believed the things which were spoken, and some believed not." 
Acts28:25 When they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word: well spake the holy ghost by Esay the prophet unto our fathers," 
Acts28:26 saying: Go unto this people and say: with your ears shall ye hear, and shall not understand: and with your eyes shall ye see and shall not perceive." 
Acts28:27 For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears wex(were) thick of hearing, and their eyes have they closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and should be converted, and I should heal them." 
Acts28:28 Be it known therefore unto you, that this consolation(salvation) of God is sent to the gentiles, and they shall hear it." 
Acts28:29 And when he had said that, the jews departed from him, and had great disputation(despicions) among themselves." 
Acts28:30 But(And) Paul dwelt (full) two years in his lodging. And received all that came to him," 
Acts28:31 preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concerned the Lord Jesus with all confidence,(boldness) no man forbidding him.(unforbidden.) [Here endeth the Acts off the apostles.]" 
Romans1:1 Paul the servant of Jesus Christ, called unto the office of(to be) an apostle, put apart to preach the Gospell of God," 
Romans1:2 which he promised afore by his prophets, in the holy scriptures" 
Romans1:3 that make mention of his son, the which was begotten (unto him) of the seed of David, as pertaining to the flesh:" 
Romans1:4 and declared to be the son of God with power of the holy ghost, that sanctifieth, since the time that Jesus Christ our Lord rose again from death," 
Romans1:5 by whom we have received grace and apostleship, that all gentiles should obey to the faith which is in his name,(to bring all manner heathen people unto obedience of the faith, that is in his name:)" 
Romans1:6 of the which number are ye(of the which heathen are ye a part) also, which are Jesus Christ's(Iesus christes) by vocation." 
Romans1:7 To all you of Rome beloved of God, and saints by calling. Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Romans1:8 First verily I thank my God thorow Jesus Christ for you all, because your faith is published(spoken of) throughout all the world." 
Romans1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit, in the Gospell of his son that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers," 
Romans1:10 beseeching that at one time or another, a prosperous journey (by the will of God) might fortune me to come unto you." 
Romans1:11 For I long to see you, that I might bestow among you some spiritual gift, to strengthen you withal" 
Romans1:12 (that is) that I might have consolation together(be conforted) with you, through the common faith, which both ye and I have." 
Romans1:13 I would that ye should know, brethren, how that I have oftentimes purposed to come unto you (but have been let hitherto) to have some fruit among you, as I have among other of the gentiles." 
Romans1:14 For I am debtor both to the greeks, and to them which are no greeks, unto the learned and also unto the unlearned.(unwise)" 
Romans1:15 Likewise, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the Gospell to you of Rome also." 
Romans1:16 For I am not ashamed of the Gospell of Christ, because it is the power of God unto salvation to(which saveth) all that believe, namely to the jew, and also to the gentile." 
Romans1:17 For by it the righteousness which cometh of(that is of value before) God is opened, from faith to faith. As it is written: The just shall live by faith.(The just shall live by his faith)" 
Romans1:18 For the wrath of God of heaven appeareth(wrath of God appeareth from heaven) against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men which withhold the truth(truth of God) in unrighteousness," 
Romans1:19 seeing that that, which(what) may be known of God, (that same) is manifest among them. For God did shew it unto them." 
Romans1:20 For(So that) his invisible things (that is to say, his eternal power and godhead) are understood and seen, by the works from the creation of the world. So that they are without excuse," 
Romans1:21 inasmuch as when they knew God, they glorified(praised) him not as God, neither were thankful, but waxed full of vanities in their imaginations. And their foolish hearts were blinded." 
Romans1:22 When they counted themselves wise, they became fools" 
Romans1:23 and turned the glory of the immortal God, unto the similitude of the image of mortal man, and of birds, and four footed beasts and (of) serpents." 
Romans1:24 For this cause(Wherefore) God (like wise) gave them up unto their hearts' lusts, unto uncleanness to defile their own bodies between themselves:" 
Romans1:25 which turned his truth unto a lie, and worshipped and served the creatures more than the maker, which is blessed forever Amen." 
Romans1:26 For this cause God gave them up unto shameful lusts. For even their women did change the natural use unto the unnatural. 
Romans1:27 And likewise also the men left the natural use of the woman, and brent in (their) lust(lusts) one on another among themselves. And man with man wrought filthiness, and received in themselves the reward of their error as it was according." 
Romans1:28 And as it seemed not good unto them to be aknown of(they regarded not to know) God, even so God delivered them up unto a lewd mind, that they should do those things which were not comely," 
Romans1:29 being full of all unrighteous doing, of fornication,(whoredom) wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate,(strife) deceit, evil conditioned whisperers," 
Romans1:30 backbiters, haters(despisers) of God, doers of wrong, proud, boasters,(bosters) bringers up of evil things, disobedient to fathers and mothers,(their elders)" 
Romans1:31 without understanding, covenant breakers, unloving, stubborn(truce breakers) and merciless.(unmercifull)" 
Romans1:32 Which men, though they knew the righteousness of God, (considered not) how that they which such things commit are worthy of death, yet not only (they that) do the same, but also (they which) had(have) pleasure in them that did(do) them." 
Romans2:1 Therefore art thou inexcusable O man whosoever thou be that judgest. For in the same wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou that judgest doest even the same self things." 
Romans2:2 But we are sure that the judgement of God is according to truth, against them which commit such things." 
Romans2:3 Thinkest thou (this) O thou man that judgest them which do such things and yet doest even the very same, that thou shalt escape the judgement of God?" 
Romans2:4 Other(Either) despisest thou the riches of his goodness and patience, and long sufferance? and rememberest not how that the kindness of God leadeth thee to repentance?" 
Romans2:5 But thou after thine hard heart that cannot repent, heapest thee together the treasure of wrath against the day of vengeance,(wrath) when shall be opened the righteous judgement of God," 
Romans2:6 which will reward every man according to his deeds," 
Romans2:7 that is to say praise, honour, and immortality,(uncorruption) to them which continue(with patience) in good doing, and seek eternal life:" 
Romans2:8 But unto them that are rebellious, and disobey the truth, yet(and) follow iniquity,(are contentious and not obedient unto the truth, but obey unrighteousness) shall come indignation, and wrath," 
Romans2:9 tribulation(trouble) and anguish upon the soul of every man that doth evil. Of the jew first: And also of the gentile. 
Romans2:10 To every man that doth good shall come praise, honour and peace, to the jew first, and also to the gentile." 
Romans2:11 For there is no partiality with God:(there is no respect of persons before God) 
Romans2:12 But whosoever hath sinned without law, shall perish without law. And as many as have sinned under the law, shall be judged by the law." 
Romans2:13 For before God they are not righteous which hear the law: but they which do(doers of) the law shall be justified. 
Romans2:14 For if the gentiles which have no law, do of nature the things contained in the law: then they having no law, are a law unto themselves," 
Romans2:15 which shew the deed(work) of the law written in their hearts: While their conscience beareth witness unto them, and also their thoughts, accusing one another, or excusing" 
Romans2:16 at the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, by Jesus Christ according to my Gospell." 
Romans2:17 Behold, thou art called a jew, and trustest in the law and rejoicest in(makest thy boast of) God," 
Romans2:18 and knowest his will, and hast experience of good and bad, in that thou art informed by the law:" 
Romans2:19 And believest that thou thyself art a guide unto the blind,(thou provest what is best to do, and presumest to be a leader of the blind) a light to them which are in darkness," 
Romans2:20 an informer of them which lack discretion,(the unwise) a teacher of the unlearned,(simple) which hast the ensample of that which ought to be known,(ensample of knowledge) and of the truth in the law." 
Romans2:21 Now teachest thou another: but teachest not thyself.(But thou which teachest another, teachest not thyself.) Thou preachest, a man should not steal: and yet thou stealest." 
Romans2:22 Thou sayest, a man should not commit advoutry and thou breakest wedlock." 
Romans2:23 Thou abhorrest images, and robbest God of his honour. Thou rejoicest in(makest thy boast of) the law, and thorow breaking the law dishonourest God." 
Romans2:24 For the name of God is evil spoken of among the gentiles thorow you as it is written. 
Romans2:25 Circumcision verily availeth if thou keep the law: But if thou break the law thy circumcision is made(become) uncircumcision. 
Romans2:26 Therefore if the uncircumcised keep the right things contained in the law: shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? 
Romans2:27 And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature (if it keep the law)(and fulfilleth the law) judge thee, which being under the letter and circumcision, dost transgress the law?" 
Romans2:28 For he is not a jew, which is a jew outward. Neither is that thing circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:" 
Romans2:29 But he is a Jew which is hid within, and the circumcision of the heart is the true circumcision, which is in the spirit, and not in the letter: whose praise is not of men but of God." 
Romans3:1 What preferment(furtherance) than hath the jew? other what advantageth circumcision? 
Romans3:2 Surely very much. First unto them was committed the word of God.(what God spake) 
Romans3:3 What then though some of them did not believe? shall their unbelief make the promise of God without effect? 
Romans3:4 God forbid. Let God be true, and all men liars, as it is written: That thou mightest be justified in thy sayings and shouldest overcome when thou art judged." 
Romans3:5 If our unrighteousness make the righteousness of God more excellent: what shall we say? Is God unrighteous which taketh vengeance?(Is God then unrighteous, that he is angry therefore?) (I speak after the manner of men.)" 
Romans3:6 God forbid. For how then shall God judge the world? 
Romans3:7 if the verity(trueth) of God appear more excellent thorow my lie,(lye) unto his praise, why am I hence forth judged as a sinner?" 
Romans3:8 and say not rather (as men evil speak of us, and as some affirm(report) that we say) let us do evil, that good may come thereof. Whose damnation is just.(inst)" 
Romans3:9 What say we then? Are we better than they? no, in no wise. For we have all ready proved how that both jews and gentiles are all under sin," 
Romans3:10 as it is written: There is none righteous, no not one:" 
Romans3:11 There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God," 
Romans3:12 they are all gone out of the way, they are all made unprofitable, there is none that doeth good, no not one." 
Romans3:13 Their throat is an open sepulchre, with their tongues they have deceived: the poison of Aspes is under their lips;" 
Romans3:14 whose mouths are full of cursing and bitterness. 
Romans3:15 Their feet are swift to shed blood. 
Romans3:16 Destruction and wretchedness are in their ways: 
Romans3:17 And the way of peace have they not known. 
Romans3:18 There is no fear of God before their eyes. 
Romans3:19 Yea and we know that whatsoever the law saith, he saith it to them which are under the law: That all mouths may be stopped, and all the world be subdued(may be debter unto) to God," 
Romans3:20 because that by the deeds of the law, shall no flesh be justified in the sight of God. For by the law cometh the knowledge of sin." 
Romans3:21 Now verily is the righteousness that cometh of God declared with out the fulfilling of(without adding to) the law having witness yet of the law, and of the prophets." 
Romans3:22 The righteousness no doubt which is good before God cometh by the faith of Jesus Christ unto all, and upon all them that believe. (of him)" 
Romans3:23 For there is no difference, (for) all have sinned, and lack(wait) the praise that is of valour before God:" 
Romans3:24 but are justified freely(without deserving) by his grace, through the redemption that is in(is done by) Christ Jesu," 
Romans3:25 whom God hath made a seat of mercy thorow faith in his blood, to shew the righteousness which before him is of valour,(availeth before him) in that he forgiveth the sins that are passed," 
Romans3:26 which God did suffer to shew at this time: the righteousness that is allowed of him,(availeth before him) that he might be counted just, and a justifier of him which believeth on Jesus.(that he onely might be righteous, and the righteous maker of him which is of the faith on Iesus)" 
Romans3:27 Where is then thy rejoicing? It is excluded. By what law? by the law of works? Nay: but by the law of faith. 
Romans3:28 We suppose therefore (we hold) that a man is justified by faith without the deeds(works) of the law. 
Romans3:29 Is he the God of the jews only? Is he not also the God of the gentiles? He is no doubt, God also of the gentiles.(Yes, even of the Gentiles also.)" 
Romans3:30 For it is God only which justifieth circumcision, which is of faith: and uncircumcision thorow faith." 
Romans3:31 Do we then destroy the law thorow faith? God forbid. (But) We rather maintain the law. 
Romans4:1 What shall we say then, that Abraham our father as pertaining to the flesh did find?" 
Romans4:2 If Abraham were justified by deeds,(made righteous thorow works) then hath he wherein to rejoice: but not with(not before) God." 
Romans4:3 For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness." 
Romans4:4 To him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of favour: but of duty. 
Romans4:5 To him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, is (his) faith counted for righteousness. (according to the purpose of the grace of God)" 
Romans4:6 Even as David describeth the blessedfulness of a(the) man, unto whom good(god) ascribeth righteousness without deeds:(counteth righteousness without adding to of works, where he sayeth:)" 
Romans4:7 Blessed are they, whose unrighteousness is forgiven,(unrighteousnesses are forgiven) and whose sins are covered." 
Romans4:8 Blessed is that man to whom the Lord imputeth not sin. 
Romans4:9 Came this blessedness then upon the circumcised or upon the uncircumcised? We say verily how that faith was reckoned to Abraham, for righteousness.(We must needs grant, that Abraham's faith was counted unto him for righteousness)" 
Romans4:10 How was it reckoned? in the time of circumcision? or in the time before he was circumcised? Not in time of circumcision: but when he was yet uncircumcised. 
Romans4:11 And he received the sign(token) of circumcision, as a seal of the righteousness which is by faith, which faith he had yet being uncircumcised, that he should be the father of all them that believe, though they be not circumcised, that righteousness might be imputed(counted) to them also;" 
Romans4:12 And that he might be the father of the circumcised: not because they are circumcised only: but because they walk also in the steps of that faith, which(that) was in our father Abraham before the time of circumcision." 
Romans4:13 For the promise that he should be heir of the world was not given to Abraham, or to his seed thorow the law: but thorow the righteousness which cometh of faith." 
Romans4:14 For if they which are of the law be heirs, then is faith but vain, and the promise of none effect." 
Romans4:15 Because the law causeth wrath. For where no law is, there is no transgression." 
Romans4:16 Therefore by faith is the inheritance given,(Therefore was the promise made thorow faith) that it might come of favour: and that the promise might be sure to all the seed. Not to them only which are of the law: but also to them which are of the faith of Abraham, which is the father of us all." 
Romans4:17 As it is written: I have ordained(made) thee a father to many nations,(even) before God whom thou hast believed, which quickeneth the dead and calleth(called) those things which be not as though they were." 
Romans4:18 Which Abraham, contrary to hope, believed in hope, that he should be the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken: So shall thy seed be. (as the stars of heaven, and sand of the sea)" 
Romans4:19 And he fainted not in the faith, nor yet considered his own body, which was now dead, even when he was almost an hundred year old. Neither considered he the barrenness of Sara.(:neither yet that Sara was past childbearing.)" 
Romans4:20 He staggered not at the promise of God thorow unbelief: But was made strong in the faith, and gave honour(praise) to God and steadfastly believed,(full certified)" 
Romans4:21 that he which had made the promised was able also to make it good.(that what he had promised, that he was able to make good.)" 
Romans4:22 And therefore was it reckoned to him for righteousness. 
Romans4:23 It is not written for him only, that it was reckoned(counted) to him for righteousness:" 
Romans4:24 but also for us, to whom it shall be counted for righteousness so we believe on him that raised, up Jesus our Lord from death." 
Romans4:25 Which was delivered for our sins, and rose again for to justify us." 
Romans5:1 Because therefore that we are justified by faith we are at peace with God thorow our Lord Jesus Christ: 
Romans5:2 by whom we have a way in thorow(an entrance in) faith unto this favour(grace) wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the praise that shall be given (of the children) of God. 
Romans5:3 Neither do we so only: but also we rejoice in tribulation: For we know that tribulation bringeth patience," 
Romans5:4 patience bringeth fealing, fealing(experience, experience) bringeth hope." 
Romans5:5 And hope maketh not ashamed,(is letteth us not come to confusion) because the love that God hath unto us,(for the love of God) is shed abroad in our hearts, by the holy ghost, which is given unto us." 
Romans5:6 For when we were yet weak according to the time: Christ died for us which were ungodly. 
Romans5:7 Yet scarce will any man die for a righteous man. Peradventure for a good man durst a man die. 
Romans5:8 But God setteth out his love that he hath to us; Seeing that while we were yet sinners; (according to the time) Christ died for us. 
Romans5:9 Much more then now (seeing we are justified(made righteous) in his blood) shall we be preserved(saved) from wrath thorow him. 
Romans5:10 For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son: much more, seeing we are reconciled, we shall be preserved(saved) by his life." 
Romans5:11 Not only so, but we also joy(rejoice also) in God by the means of(thorow) our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have received this(the) atonement." 
Romans5:12 Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by the means of sin. And so death went over all men, insomuch that all men sinned." 
Romans5:13 For even unto the time of the law was sin in the world: but sin was not regarded, as long as there was no law:" 
Romans5:14 nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them also that sinned not, with like transgression as did Adam: which is the similitude(image) of him that was(is) to come." 
Romans5:15 But the gift is not like as the sin. For if thorow the sin of one, many be dead: much more plenteous upon many was the favour(grace) of God and gift by favour:(grace:) which favour(grace) was given by one man Jesus Christ." 
Romans5:16 And the gift is not over one sin, as death came thorow one sin of one that sinned. For damnation(the judgement) came of one sin unto condemnation: But the gift came to justify from many sins." 
Romans5:17 For if by the sin of one, death reigned by the means of one, much more shall they which receive abundance of favour(grace) and of the gift of righteousness reign in life by the means of one (that is to say) Jesus Christe." 
Romans5:18 Likewise then as by the sin of one, condemnation came on all men: even so by the justifying of one cometh the righteousness that bringeth life, upon all men." 
Romans5:19 For as by one man's disobedience many became sinners: so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. 
Romans5:20 (But) The law in the mean time entered in that sin should increase. And(Neverthelater) where abundance of sin was, there was more plenteousness of grace." 
Romans5:21 That as sin had reigned unto death, even so might grace reign thorow righteousness unto eternal life, by the help(means) of Jesu(Iesu) Christ." 
Romans6:1 What shall we say then? shall we continue in sin, that there may be abundance of grace?" 
Romans6:2 God forbid. How shall we that are dead as touching sin live any longer therein? 
Romans6:3 Remember ye not that all we which are baptised in the name of Christ Jesu, are baptised to die with him?" 
Romans6:4 We are buried with him by baptism for to die: That (likewise) as Christ was raised up from death by the glory of the father: even so we also should walk in a new life. 
Romans6:5 For if we be graft in death like unto him: even so must we be in the resurrection. 
Romans6:6 This we must remember, that our old man is crucified with him also, that the body of sin might utterly be destroyed,(sinful body might cease) that henceforth we should not be servants of sin.(serve sin no more)" 
Romans6:7 For he that is dead, is justified from sin." 
Romans6:8 Wherefore if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall live with him:" 
Romans6:9 remembering that Christ once raised from death, dieth no more. Death hath no more power over him." 
Romans6:10 For as touching that he died, he died as concerning sin once. And as touching that he liveth, he liveth unto God." 
Romans6:11 Likewise imagine ye also, that ye are dead concerning sin: but are alive unto God thorow Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Romans6:12 Let not sin reign therefore in your mortal bodies, that ye should thereunto obey in the lusts of it." 
Romans6:13 Neither give ye your members as instruments(weapons) of unrighteousness unto sin: But give yourselves unto God, as they that are alive from death. And give your members as instruments(weapons) of righteousness unto God." 
Romans6:14 Sin shall not have power over you.(Let not sin have power over you) For ye are not under the law, but under grace." 
Romans6:15 What then? Shall we sin, because we are not under the law: but under grace? God forbid." 
Romans6:16 Remember ye not how that to whomsoever ye commit yourselves as servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey: whether it be of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?" 
Romans6:17 God be thanked. (,that though) Ye were once the servants of sin: But now (ye) have (yet) obeyed with your hearts(heart) unto the form of doctrine where unto ye were delivered." 
Romans6:18 Ye are then made free from sin, and are become the servants of righteousness." 
Romans6:19 I will speak grossly because of the infirmity(weakness) of your flesh. As ye have given your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity, from iniquity unto iniquity: even so now give your members servants unto(to the service of) righteousness, that ye may be sanctified.(holy)" 
Romans6:20 For when ye were servants of sin, ye were not under righteousness." 
Romans6:21 What fruit had ye then in those things, where of ye are now ashamed. For the end of those things is death." 
Romans6:22 But now are ye delivered(be free) from sin, and made(become) the servants of God, and have your fruit that ye should be sanctified,(holy) and the end everlasting life." 
Romans6:23 For the reward of sin is death: but eternal life is the gift of God, thorow Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Romans7:1 Remember ye not brethren (I speak to them that know the law) how that the law hath power over a man as long as it endureth: 
Romans7:2 For the woman which is in subjection to a man, is bound by the law to the man, as long as he liveth. If the man be dead, she is loosed(lowsed) from the law of(that concerneth) the man." 
Romans7:3 So then if while the man liveth she couple herself with another man, she shall be counted a wedlock breaker. But if the man be dead she is free from the law: so that she is no wedlock breaker, though she couple herself with another man." 
Romans7:4 Even so ye my brethren, ye also are made dead as concerning the law by the body of Christ, that ye should be coupled to another (I mean to him that is risen again from death) that we should bring forth fruit unto God." 
Romans7:5 (For) When we were in the flesh, the lusts of sin which were stirred up by the law, reigned(were mighty) in our members, to bring forth fruit unto death." 
Romans7:6 But now are we delivered(lowsed) from the law, and dead from it,(that) whereunto we were in bondage,(that held us captive) that we should serve in a new conversation of the spirit, and not in the old conversation of the letter." 
Romans7:7 What shall we say then? is the law sin? God forbid: but I knew not what sin meant but by the law. For I had not known what lust had meant, except the law had said, thou shalt not lust." 
Romans7:8 But sin took an occasion by the means of the commandment, and wrought(stirred) in me all manner of concupiscence.(lust) For verily without the law sin was dead." 
Romans7:9 I once lived without law: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I was dead." 
Romans7:10 And the very same commandment which was ordained(given me) unto life, was found to be unto me an occasion of death." 
Romans7:11 For sin took occasion by the means of the commandment and so deceived me, and by the self commandment slew me." 
Romans7:12 Wherefore the law is holy,(The law in deed is holy) and the commandment holy, just, and good." 
Romans7:13 Was that then which is good made death unto me? God forbid. Nay sin was death unto me, that it might appear how that sin by the means of that which is(thorow) good, had wrought death in me: that sin which is under the commandment, might be out of measure sinful." 
Romans7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin:" 
Romans7:15 because I wot(know) not what I do. For what I would, that do I not: but what I hate, that do I." 
Romans7:16 If I do now that which I would not, I grant to the law that it is good." 
Romans7:17 So then now it is not I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me." 
Romans7:18 For I know that in me (that is to say in my flesh) dwelleth no good thing. To will is present with me: but I find no means to perform that which is good. 
Romans7:19 For I do not that good thing which I would: but that evil do I, which I would not." 
Romans7:20 Finally, if I do that I would not, then is it not I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me doeth it." 
Romans7:21 I find then by the law that when I would do good, evil is present with me." 
Romans7:22 I delight in the law of God, as concerning the inner man." 
Romans7:23 But I see another law in my members rebelling against the law of my mind, and subduing me unto the law of sin, which is in my members." 
Romans7:24 O wretched man that I am: who shall deliver me from this body of death? 
Romans7:25 I thank God by(thorow) Jesus Christ our Lord: So then I myself in my mind serve the law of God, and in my flesh the law of sin." 
Romans8:1 There is then no damnation to them which are in Christ Jesu, which walk not after the flesh: but after the spirit." 
Romans8:2 For the law of the spirit, wherein is(that bringeth) life thorow Jesus Christ hath delivered me(made me free) from the law of sin, and death." 
Romans8:3 For what the law could not do inasmuch as it was weak because of the flesh: that performed God, and sent his son in the similitude of sinful flesh, and by sin damned sin in the flesh:" 
Romans8:4 that the righteousness required of the law, might be fulfilled in us, which walk not after the flesh: but after the spirit." 
Romans8:5 For they that are carnal, are carnally minded; and(But) they that are spiritual are ghostly minded." 
Romans8:6 To be carnally minded is death; and(But) to be spiritually minded is life, and peace:" 
Romans8:7 because that the fleshly mind is enmity against God: For it is not obedient to(subdued unto) the law of God, neither can be." 
Romans8:8 So then they that are given to the flesh, cannot please God." 
Romans8:9 But ye are not given to the flesh; But to the spirit: If so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. If there be any man that hath not the spirit of Christ, the same is none of his." 
Romans8:10 If Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin: But the spirit is life for righteousness' sake." 
Romans8:11 Wherefore if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from death, dwell in you: even he that raised up Christ from death, shall quicken your mortal bodies, be cause that his(this) spirit dwelleth in you." 
Romans8:12 Therefore brethren we are now debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh:" 
Romans8:13 For if ye live after the flesh, ye must die. But if ye mortify the deeds of the body, by the help of the spirit, ye shall live," 
Romans8:14 for as many as are led by the spirit of God, (:they) are the sons of God." 
Romans8:15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondage to fear any more, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry Abba father.(Abba, dear father)" 
Romans8:16 The same spirit certifieth our spirit that we are the sons of God. 
Romans8:17 If we be sons, we are also heirs (the heirs I mean of God) and heirs annexed with Christ, if so be that we suffer together, that we may be glorified together." 
Romans8:18 For I suppose that the afflictions of this life, are not worthy of the glory which shall be shewed upon us." 
Romans8:19 Also the fervent desire(longing) of the creatures abideth looking when the sons of God shall appear 
Romans8:20 because the creatures are subdued to vanity against their will: but for his will which subdued(subdueth) them in hope. 
Romans8:21 For the very creatures shall be delivered(free) from the bondage of corruption, into the glorious liberty of the sons of God.(children of God)" 
Romans8:22 For we know that every creature groaneth with us also, and travaileth in pain even unto this time." 
Romans8:23 Not they only, but even we also which have the first fruits of the spirit mourn(groan) in ourselves and wait for the adoption (of the children God) and look for the deliverance of our bodies." 
Romans8:24 For we are saved by hope. But hope that is seen is no hope. For how can a man hope for that which he seeth? 
Romans8:25 but and if we hope for that we see not, then do we with(thorow) patience abide for it." 
Romans8:26 Likewise the spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not, what to desire as we ought: but the spirit maketh intercession mightily for us with groanings which cannot be expressed with tongue." 
Romans8:27 And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the meaning(mind) of the spirit: for he maketh intercession for the saints according to the pleasure of God. 
Romans8:28 For we know well that all things work(serve) for the best unto them that love God, which also are called of purpose." 
Romans8:29 For those which he knew before, he also ordained before, that they should be like fashioned unto the shape of his son, that he might be the first begotten son among many brethren." 
Romans8:30 Moreover which he appointed(ordained) before, them he also called; and which he called, them also he justified; which he justified,(made righteous) them he also glorified." 
Romans8:31 What shall we then say unto these things? if God be on our side: who can be against us? 
Romans8:32 which spared not his own son, but gave him for us all: How shall he not with him give us all things also?" 
Romans8:33 Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's(goddes) chosen? It is God that justifieth:(maketh righteous) 
Romans8:34 who then shall condemn? it is Christ which is dead; Yea rather which is risen again, which is also on the right hand of God and maketh intercession for us." 
Romans8:35 Who shall separate us from God's love?(the love of god) shall tribulation? or anguish? or persecution, other hunger? other nakedness? other peril? other sword?" 
Romans8:36 As it is written: For thy sake are we killed all day long, and are counted as sheep appointed to be slain." 
Romans8:37 Nevertheless in all these things we overcome strongly thorow his help that loved us. 
Romans8:38 Yea and I am sure that neither death, neither life, neither angel,(angels) nor rule, neither power, neither things present, neither things to come," 
Romans8:39 neither height, neither lowth, neither any other creature shall be able to depart us from God's love,(the love of God) which is(shewed) in Christ Jesu our Lord." 
Romans9:1 I Say the truth in Christ and lie not, in that whereof my conscience beareth me witness in the holy ghost," 
Romans9:2 that I have great heaviness, and continual sorrow in my heart." 
Romans9:3 For I have wished myself to be cursed from Christ for my brethren, which are(and) my kinsmen as pertaining to the flesh." 
Romans9:4 Which are the Israelites, to whom pertaineth the adoption, (of the children) and the glory, and the testaments,(convenants) and the ordinance of the law,(the law that was given) and the service of God, and the promises," 
Romans9:5 whose also are the fathers, and they of whom (as concerning the flesh) Christ came: which is God over all things blessed forever Amen." 
Romans9:6 I speak not these things as though the words of God had took(taken) none effect. For they are not all Israelites which came of Israel; 
Romans9:7 Neither are they all children straightway because they are the seed of Abraham: But in Isaac shall thy seed be called," 
Romans9:8 that is to say; They which are the children of the flesh, are not the children of God. But the children of promise are counted the seed." 
Romans9:9 For this is a word of promise, about this time will I come, and Sara shall have a son." 
Romans9:10 Neither was it to with her only: but also when Rebecca was with child by one, I mean(namely) by our father Isaac," 
Romans9:11 yer the children were born, when they had neither done good neither bad (that the purpose of God which is by election, might stand) it was said unto her, not by the reason(deserving) of works, but by grace of the caller," 
Romans9:12 the elder shall serve the younger.(The greater shall serve the less) 
Romans9:13 As it is written: Jacob he loved, but Esau he hated." 
Romans9:14 What shall we say then? is there any unrighteousness with God? God forbid. 
Romans9:15 For he saith to Moses: I will shew mercy to whom I shew mercy: And will have compassion on whom I have compassion. 
Romans9:16 So lieth it not then in a man's will, or running,(cunning) but in the mercy of God." 
Romans9:17 For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh: Even for this same purpose(this cause) have I stirred thee up, to shew my power on thee, and that my name might be declared thorowout all the world.(declared in all lands)" 
Romans9:18 So hath he mercy on whom he will. And whom he will he maketh hard hearted.(hardeneth) 
Romans9:19 Thou wilt say then unto me: why then blameth he us yet? For who can resist his will? 
Romans9:20 But O man what art thou, which disputest with God? shall the work say to the workman: why hast thou made me on this fashion?" 
Romans9:21 Hath not the potter power over the clay, even of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?" 
Romans9:22 Even so, God willing to shew his wrath, and to make his power known, suffered with long(brought forth with great) patience the vessels of wrath, ordained to damnation," 
Romans9:23 that he might declare the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had prepared(prepayred) unto glory:" 
Romans9:24 that is to say, us which he called, not of the jews only, but also of the gentiles." 
Romans9:25 As he saith in Osee: I will call them my people which were not my people: and her beloved which was not beloved. 
Romans9:26 And it shall come to pass in the place where it was said unto them: Ye are not my people, that there shall be called the sons(children) of the living God." 
Romans9:27 But Esaias crieth for(concerning) Israel, though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet shall a remnant be saved." 
Romans9:28 He finisheth the work verily and maketh it short in righteousness. For a short word will God make on earth. 
Romans9:29 And as Esaias said before: Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us seed, we had been made as Zodoma, and had been likened to Gomorra." 
Romans9:30 What shall we say then? we say that the gentiles which followed not righteousness, have overtaken righteousness I mean the righteousness which cometh of faith." 
Romans9:31 But Israel which followed the law of righteousness, could not attain unto the law of righteousness." 
Romans9:32 And wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith: but as it were by the works of the law.(but as it were out of the deserving of works) For they have stumbled at the stumbling stone. 
Romans9:33 As it is written: Behold I put in Syon a stumbling stone, and a rock which shall make men fall.(to be offended at) And none that believe on him, shall be ashamed.(and who so ever believeth on him, shall not be confounded)" 
Romans10:1 Brethren my heart's desire, and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved." 
Romans10:2 For I bear them record that they have a fervent mind to Godward,(zealous for God's cause) but not according to knowledge.(not with understanding)" 
Romans10:3 For they are ignorant of(know not) the righteousness which is allowed(which availeth) before God, and go about to establish(maintain) their own righteousness and therefore are not obedient(subdued) unto the righteousness which is of value before God." 
Romans10:4 For Christ is the end of the law to justify all that believe.(law, unto righteousness for everyone that believeth)" 
Romans10:5 Moses describeth(writeth of) the righteousness which cometh of the law, how that the man which doth the things of the law shall live therein." 
Romans10:6 But the righteousness which cometh of faith, speaketh on this wise: Say not in thine heart: who shall ascend(go up) into heaven? (That is nothing else than to fetch Christ down.)" 
Romans10:7 Other(or) who shall descend(go down) into the deep? That is nothing else but to fetch up Christ from death. 
Romans10:8 But what saith the scripture? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thine heart. This word is the word of faith which we preach." 
Romans10:9 For if thou shalt knowledge with thy mouth(mought) that Jesus is the Lord, and shalt believe with thine heart that God raised him up from death, thou shalt be safe.(saved)" 
Romans10:10 For the belief of the heart justifieth: and to knowledge with the mouth maketh a man safe.(For if a man believe from the heart, he shall be righteous: and if a man knowledge with the mouth, he shall be saved)" 
Romans10:11 For the scripture saith: whosoever believeth on him, shall not be ashamed.(confounded)" 
Romans10:12 There is no difference between the jew and the gentile. For one is Lord of all, which is rich unto all that call on him." 
Romans10:13 For whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be safe.(saved) 
Romans10:14 (But) How shall they call on him, on whom they believed not? how shall they believe on him of whom they have not heard? how shall they hear with out a preacher?" 
Romans10:15 And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written: how beautiful are the feet of them which bring glad tidings of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things." 
Romans10:16 But they have not all obeyed to the gospel.(gospell) For Esaias saith: Lord who shall believe our sayings?(preaching?) 
Romans10:17 So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing cometh by the word of God." 
Romans10:18 But I ask: have they not heard? No doubt, their sound went out into all lands: and their words into the ends of the world." 
Romans10:19 But I demand whether Israel did know or not? First Moses saith: I will provoke you for to envy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you." 
Romans10:20 Esaias after that is bold and saith. I am found of them that sought me not, and have appeared to them that asked not after me." 
Romans10:21 And against Israel he saith: All day long have I stretched forth my hands unto a people that believeth not, but speaketh against me." 
Romans11:1 I say then: hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For even I verily am an Israelite of the seed of Abraham, and of the tribe of Benjamin;" 
Romans11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he knew before. Other(Either) wot ye not what the scripture saith by the mouth of Helias, how he spake(maketh intercession) to God against Israel, saying:" 
Romans11:3 Lord they have killed thy prophets and digged down thine altars: and I am left only, and they seek my death.(and they seek my life.)" 
Romans11:4 But what saith the answer of God to him again? I have reserved unto me seven thousand men which have not bowed their knees(the knee) to baal. 
Romans11:5 Even so at this time is there a remnant left thorow the election of grace. 
Romans11:6 If it be of grace then is it not by the deserving of works.(then is it not of works) For then were favour(grace) no more favour.(grace.) If it be by the deserving of works, then is there no favour.(is it no more grace.) For then were deserving no (longer) deserving." 
Romans11:7 What then? Israel hath not obtained that that he sought. No but yet the election hath obtained it. The remnant are blinded,(As for the other, they are blinded)" 
Romans11:8 according as it is written: God hath given them the spirit of unquietness: eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear, even unto this day." 
Romans11:9 And David saith: Let their table be made a snare to take them withal, and an occasion to fall, and a reward unto them." 
Romans11:10 Let their eyes be blinded that they see not: and ever bow down their backs. 
Romans11:11 I say then: Have they therefore stumbled that they should but fall only? God forbid: but thorow their fall is health(salvation) happened unto the gentiles for to provoke them withal. 
Romans11:12 Wherefore if the fall of them, be the riches of the world: and the minishing of them the riches of the gentiles: How much more should it be so if they all believed.(if their fulness were there?)" 
Romans11:13 I speak to you gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the gentiles I will magnify mine office" 
Romans11:14 that might provoke them which are my flesh: and might save some of them. 
Romans11:15 For if the casting away of them, be the reconciling of the world: what shall the receiving of them be, but life again from death?" 
Romans11:16 For if one piece be holy, the whole heap is holy. And if the root(rote) be holy, the branches are holy also." 
Romans11:17 Though some of the branches be broken off, and thou being a wild olive tree art graft in among them, and made partaker(part taker) of the root,(rote) and fatness(sap) of the olive tree," 
Romans11:18 boast(boost) not thyself against the branches. For if thou boast(boost) thyself, remember that thou bearest not the root,(rote) but the root(rote) thee." 
Romans11:19 Thou wilt say then: the branches are broken off, that I might be graft in." 
Romans11:20 Thou sayest well: because of unbelief they are broken off, and thou standest steadfast in faith.(thorow belief) Be not high minded, but fear:" 
Romans11:21 seeing that God spared not the natural branches, lest haply he also spare not thee." 
Romans11:22 Behold the kindness and rigorousness of God: on them which fell, rigorousness: but towards thee kindness, if thou continue in his kindness. Or else thou shalt be hewn off," 
Romans11:23 and they if they bide not still in unbelief shall be grafted in again. For God is of power to graft them in again. 
Romans11:24 For if thou wast cut out of a natural wild olive tree, and wast graffed contrary to nature in a true olive tree:(the good olive tree) how much more shall the natural branches be graffed in their own olive tree again." 
Romans11:25 I would not that this secret should be hid from you my brethren (lest ye should be wise in your own conceits) that partly blindness is happened in Israel, until the fullness of the gentiles be come in." 
Romans11:26 And so all Israel shall be saved. As it is written: There shall come out of Sion he that doth deliver, and shall turn away the ungodliness of Jacob." 
Romans11:27 And this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins." 
Romans11:28 As concerning the gospel;(gospell) They are enemies for your sakes: but as touching the election, they are loved for the fathers' sakes." 
Romans11:29 For verily the gifts and calling of God are such, that it cannot repent him of them," 
Romans11:30 for look, as ye in time passed have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy thorow their unbelief:" 
Romans11:31 even so now have they not believed the mercy which is happened unto you; That they also may obtain mercy. 
Romans11:32 God hath wrapped all nations in(closed up all under) unbelief, that he might have mercy on all." 
Romans11:33 O the deepness of the abundant wisdom and knowledge off God: how incomprehensible(unsearchable) are his judgements, and his ways unsearchable.(past finding out.)" 
Romans11:34 For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who was his counsellor? 
Romans11:35 other who hath given unto him first, that he might be recompensed again?" 
Romans11:36 For of him, and thorow him, and unto(for) him are all things. To him be glory(praise) forever Amen." 
Romans12:1 I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercifulness of God that ye make your bodies a quick sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God which is your reasonable serving of God." 
Romans12:2 And fashion not yourselves like unto this world: But be ye changed in your shape, by(changed thorow) the renewing of your wits,(mind) that ye may feel(prove) what thing that good, that acceptable, and perfect will of God is." 
Romans12:3 For I say (thorow the grace that unto me given is) to every man among you, that no man esteem of himself more than it becometh him to esteem: But that he discreetly judge of himself according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith." 
Romans12:4 As we have many members in one body: and all members have not one office:(one manner of operation) 
Romans12:5 So we being many are one body in Christ: and every man (among ourselves) one another's members. 
Romans12:6 Seeing that we have divers gifts according to the grace that is given unto us, if any man have the gift of prophecy, let him have it that it be agreeing unto(according to) the faith." 
Romans12:7 Let him that hath an office, wait on his office." 
Romans12:8 Let him that teacheth take heed to his doctrine. Let him that exhorteth give attendance to his exhortation. If any man give, let him do it with singleness. Let him that ruleth do it with diligence. If any man shew mercy let him do it with cheerfulness." 
Romans12:9 Let love be without dissimulation. Hate that which is evil, and cleave unto that which is good." 
Romans12:10 Be kind one to(unto) another, with brotherly love. In giving honour go one before another." 
Romans12:11 Let not that business which ye have in hand be tedious to you. Be fervent in the spirit. Apply yourselves to the time. 
Romans12:12 Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation, continue in prayer." 
Romans12:13 Distribute unto the necessity of the saints. (and be ready to harbor.) 
Romans12:14 Bless them which persecute you: bless but curse not. 
Romans12:15 Be merry with them that are merry. Weep with them that weep. 
Romans12:16 Be of like affection one towards another.(Be of one mind among your selves) Be not high minded,(proud) but make yourselves equal to them of the lower sort. Be not wise in your own opinions." 
Romans12:17 Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide aforehand things honest (not only before God, but also)(honesty) in the sight of all men." 
Romans12:18 If it be possible, yet on(howbeit of) your part(as much as in you is) have peace with all men." 
Romans12:19 Dearly beloved avenge not yourselves but give room unto the wrath of God. For it is written: vengeance is mine, and I will reward saith the Lord." 
Romans12:20 Therefore if thine enemy hunger feed him: if he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head:" 
Romans12:21 Be not overcome of evil: But overcome evil with goodness. 
Romans13:1 Let every soul submit himself unto the authority of the higher powers. (For) There is no power but of God. The powers that be, are ordained of God." 
Romans13:2 Whosoever therefore resisteth power, resisteth the ordinance of God. (And) They that resist, shall receive to themselves damnation." 
Romans13:3 For rulers are not to be feared for good works but for evil. Wilt thou be without fear of the power? Do well then: and so shalt thou be praised of the same. 
Romans13:4 For he is the minister of God, for thy wealth. But and if thou do evil, then fear: for he beareth not a sword for nought; for he(but) is the minister of God, to take vengeance on them that do evil." 
Romans13:5 Wherefore ye must needs obey, not for fear of vengeance only:(not only for punishment) but also because of conscience." 
Romans13:6 (And) Even for this cause pay ye tribute. For they are God's(goddes) ministers, serving for the same purpose.(wich maintain the same defence)" 
Romans13:7 Give to every man therefore his duty: Tribute to whom tribute belongeth: Custom to whom custom is due: fear to whom fear belongeth: Honour to whom honour pertaineth. 
Romans13:8 Owe no thing to any man: but to love one another. For he that loveth another, fulfilleth(hath fulfilled) the law." 
Romans13:9 For these commandments: Thou shalt not commit advoutry:(not break wedlock) Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not steal: Thou shalt not bear false witness: Thou shalt not desire:(not lust) and so forth if there be any other commandment, (they) are all comprehended in this saying: Love(This word: Thou shalt Love) thine neighbor as thyself." 
Romans13:10 Love hurteth not his neighbor:(Love doth his neighbour no evil) Therefore is love the fulfilling of the law. 
Romans13:11 This also we know, I mean the season, how that it is time that we should now awake out of sleep.(namely the time that the hour is now for us to rise from sleep) For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed." 
Romans13:12 The night is passed and(past, but) the day is come nigh. Let us therefore cast away the deeds(works) of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light." 
Romans13:13 Let us walk honestly as it were in the daylight: not in(not in excess of) eating and drinking: neither in chambering and wantonness: neither in strife and envying: 
Romans13:14 but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. And make not provision for the flesh, to fulfill the lusts of it." 
Romans14:1 Him that is weak in the faith, receive unto you, not in disputing and troubling his conscience." 
Romans14:2 One believeth that he may eat all things. Another which is weak eateth herbs; 
Romans14:3 Let not him that eateth, despise him that eateth not. And let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth. For God hath received him." 
Romans14:4 What art thou that judgest another man's servant? Whether he stand or fall, that pertaineth unto his master. Yea, he shall stand. For God is able to make him stand." 
Romans14:5 This man putteth difference between day and day: another man counteth all days alike. See that no man waver in his own mind.(meaning.) 
Romans14:6 He that observeth one day more than another,(putteth difference in the day) doth it for the Lord's pleasure. And he that observeth not one day more than another, doth it to please the Lord, (also. He that eateth, doth it to please the lord,) for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, eateth not to please the Lord withal, and giveth God thanks." 
Romans14:7 For none of us liveth his own servant: and also none(neither doth any) of us dieth(die) his own servant. 
Romans14:8 If we live, we live to be at the Lord's will. And if we die, we die at the Lord's will. Whether we live therefore or die, we are the Lord's." 
Romans14:9 For Christ therefore died and rose again, and revived, that he might be Lord both of dead and quick." 
Romans14:10 But why doest thou then judge thy brother? other why dost thou despise thy brother? We shall all be brought before the judgement seat of Christ. 
Romans14:11 For it is written: As truly as I live saith the Lord, all knees shall bow to me, and all tongues shall give a knowledge to God." 
Romans14:12 So shall every one of us give accounts(acomptes) of himself to God. 
Romans14:13 Let us not therefore, judge one another any more. But judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block, or an occasion to fall in his brother's way." 
Romans14:14 For I know, and surely believe(am full certified) in the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing common of itself: but unto him that judgeth it to be common, to him it is common." 
Romans14:15 If thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died." 
Romans14:16 Suffer ye(Cause) not that your treasure (to) be evil spoken of. 
Romans14:17 For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness, peace and joy, in the holy ghost." 
Romans14:18 For whosoever in these things serveth Christ, pleaseth well God: and is commended of men." 
Romans14:19 Let us follow those things which make for peace: and things wherewith one may edify another. 
Romans14:20 Destroy not the work of God for a little meat's sake. All things are pure: but it is evil for that man, which eateth with hurt of his conscience." 
Romans14:21 It is good neither to eat flesh, neither to drink wine, neither anything, whereby thy brother stumbleth, other(either) falleth, or is made weak." 
Romans14:22 Hast thou faith? have it with thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth. 
Romans14:23 For he that maketh conscience, is damned if he eat: Because he doth it not of faith. For whatsoever is not of faith, that same is sin." 
Romans15:1 We which are strong ought to bear the frailness of them which are weak, and not to stand in our own conceits." 
Romans15:2 Let every man please his neighbor unto his wealth and edifying. 
Romans15:3 For Christ pleased not himself: but as it is written: The rebukes of them which rebuked thee, fell on me." 
Romans15:4 Whatsoever things are written aforetime, are written for our learning that we thorow patience and comfort of the scripture should(might) have hope." 
Romans15:5 (The) God which is Lord of patience and consolation,(The God of patience and consolation,) give(grant) unto every one of you, that ye be like likeminded one towards another after the ensample of Jesu Christ," 
Romans15:6 that ye all agreeing together, may with one mouth praise God the father of our Lord Jesus." 
Romans15:7 Wherefore receive ye one another as Christ received us, to the praise of God." 
Romans15:8 And I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers." 
Romans15:9 And let the gentiles praise God for his(because of) mercy. As it is written: For this cause I will praise thee among the gentiles, and sing in thy name." 
Romans15:10 And again he saith: ye gentiles rejoice with his people. 
Romans15:11 (And) Again, praise the Lord all ye gentiles, and laud him all nations." 
Romans15:12 And in another place Esaias saith: there shall be the root(rote) of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign(rule) over the gentiles: in him shall the gentiles trust." 
Romans15:13 The God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may be rich(penteous) in hope thorow the power of the holy ghost." 
Romans15:14 I myself am full certified of you my brethren that ye yourselves are full of goodness, and filled with all knowledge, and are able to counsel(exhort) one another." 
Romans15:15 Nevertheless brethren I have somewhat boldly written unto you, as one that putteth you in remembrance, for(through) the grace which(that) is given me of God" 
Romans15:16 for this purpose that I should be the minister of Jesu Christ among the gentiles, and should minister the glad tidings(declare the gospell) of God, that the gentiles might be an acceptable offering, sanctified by the holy ghost." 
Romans15:17 I have therefore whereof I may rejoice in(boast myself thorow) Christ Jesu, in those things which pertain to God." 
Romans15:18 For I dare not speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought(not speak ought, except Christ had wrough) by me (to make the gentiles obedient) with word and deed," 
Romans15:19 in mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and the coasts round about, unto Illyricum, I have filled all countries with glad tidings of Christ." 
Romans15:20 So have I enforced myself to preach the gospel,(gospell) not where Christ was named, lest I should have built on another man's foundation:" 
Romans15:21 but as it is written: To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see: and they that heard not, shall understand." 
Romans15:22 For this cause I have been oft let (and am let as yet) to come unto you: 
Romans15:23 but now seeing I have no more to do in these countries, and also have been desirous many years to come unto you," 
Romans15:24 when I shall take my journey into Spayne, I will come to you. I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you after that I have somewhat enjoyed you." 
Romans15:25 Now go I unto Jerusalem, and minister unto the saints." 
Romans15:26 For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia, to make a certain distribution upon(have willingly prepared a common collection together for) the poor saints which are at Jerusalem." 
Romans15:27 It hath pleased them verily,(They have done it willingly) and their debtors are they. For if the gentiles be made partakers(part takers) of their spiritual things, their duty is to minister unto them in carnal things." 
Romans15:28 When I have performed this, and have shewed them this fruit,(brought them this fruit sealed) I will come back again(take my journey) by you into Spayne." 
Romans15:29 And I am sure when I come, that I shall come with abundance of the(the full) blessing of the gospel(gospell) of Christ." 
Romans15:30 I beseech you brethren for our Lord Jesu Christ's(Lorde Iesu Christes) sake, and for the love of the spirit, that ye help me in my business, with your prayers to God for me," 
Romans15:31 that I may be delivered from them which believe not in Jewry; and that this my service, which I have to Jerusalem, may be accepted of the saints," 
Romans15:32 that I may come unto you with joy, by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed." 
Romans15:33 The God of peace be with all you Amen. 
Romans16:1 I commend unto you Phebe our sister (which is a minister of the congregation of Cencrea) 
Romans16:2 that ye receive her in the Lord as it becometh saints, and that ye assist(help) her, in whatsoever business she needeth of your aid. For she hath succoured many, and mine own self also." 
Romans16:3 Greet Prisca and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesu," 
Romans16:4 which have for my life laid down their own necks. Unto whom(which) not I only give thanks: but also the congregations of the gentiles. 
Romans16:5 Likewise greet all the company(congregation) that is in their house. Salute my well beloved Epenetes, which is the firstfruit among them of Achaia." 
Romans16:6 Greet Mary which bestowed much labour on us. 
Romans16:7 Salute Andronicus, and Junia my cousins, which were prisoners with me also, which are well taken among the apostles, and were in Christ before me." 
Romans16:8 Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord. 
Romans16:9 Salute Urban our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved." 
Romans16:10 Salute Apellas approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobolus' household. 
Romans16:11 Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus which are in the Lord. 
Romans16:12 Salute Triphena and Triphosa, which women did labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord." 
Romans16:13 Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine." 
Romans16:14 Greet Asincritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Mercurius,(Herman, Patrobas, Hermen) and the brethren which are with them." 
Romans16:15 Salute Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olimpha, and all the saints which are with them." 
Romans16:16 Salute one another among yourselves with an holy kiss. The congregations of Christ salute you. 
Romans16:17 I beseech you brethren mark them which cause division, and give occasions of evil contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned: and avoid them." 
Romans16:18 For they that are such serve not the Lord Jesus Christ: but their own bellies. And with sweet preachings and flattering words deceive the hearts of the innocents: 
Romans16:19 for your obedience is spoken of among(extendeth to)(published among) all men. I am glad no doubt of you.(Therefore am I glad) But yet I would have you wise unto that which is good. And to be innocent as concerning evil. 
Romans16:20 The God of peace tread Satan under your feet in short time.(shortly.) The grace of our Lord Jesu Christ be with you. 
Romans16:21 Timotheus my work fellow,(helper) and Lucius, and Jason, and Sopater, my kinsmen salute you." 
Romans16:22 I Tercius salute you, which wrote this epistle in the Lord." 
Romans16:23 Gaius mine host and the host of all the(the whole) congregations, saluteth you. Erastus saluteth you, the chamberlain of the city.(Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you.) And Quartus a brother, saluteth you." 
Romans16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesu Christ be with you all Amen. 
Romans16:25 To him that is of power to establish you according to my gospel,(gospell) where with I preach(gospell and preaching of) Jesus Christ, in opening(uttering) of the mystery which was kept close(secret) since the world began," 
Romans16:26 and(but) now is opened at this time and declared in(opened by) the scriptures of prophecy, at the commandment of the everlasting God, to stir up obedience to the faith published among all nations:" 
Romans16:27 To the same God, which alone is wise, be (honour and) praise thorow Jesus Christ for ever Amen. [To the Romans. Sent from Corrinthum by Phebe, she that was the minister unto the congregation at Chenchrea.]" 
1Corinthians1:1 Paul by vocation(called to be) an apostle of Jesus Christ thorow the will of God, and brother Sostenes." 
1Corinthians1:2 Unto the congregation of God which is at Corinthum. To them that are sanctified in Jesus(Iesu) Christ, saints by calling, with all that call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, both of theirs and of ours." 
1Corinthians1:3 Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians1:4 I thank my God always on your behalf for the favour(grace) of God which is given you by Jesus Christ," 
1Corinthians1:5 that in all things(points) ye are made rich by him, in all speech(learning)(every word) and in all knowledge(manner of knowledge)" 
1Corinthians1:6 (even as the testimony of Jesus Christ was confirmed in you,)" 
1Corinthians1:7 so that ye are behind in no gift,(want nothing in any gift) and wait for the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ" 
1Corinthians1:8 which shall strength you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the day (of the coming) of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians1:9 (For) God is faithful, by whom ye are called unto the fellowship of his son Jesus Christ our Lord." 
1Corinthians1:10 I beseech you brethren in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak one thing, and that there be no dissension among you: but be ye perfect(knit together) in one mind, and one meaning:" 
1Corinthians1:11 It is shewed unto me (my brethren) of you by them that are of the house of Cloe, that there is strife among you;" 
1Corinthians1:12 I speak of that which everyone of you sayth:(And this is it that I mean: how that commonly among you, one sayeth:) I hold of Paul; Another sayth: I hold of Apollo: Another(the third) saith: I hold of Cephas: and another saith(the fourth that) I hold of Christ." 
1Corinthians1:13 Is Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? other(either) were ye baptised in the name of Paul? 
1Corinthians1:14 I thank God that I christened(have baptised) none of you, but Crispus and Gaius," 
1Corinthians1:15 lest any should say that I in mine own name had baptised. 
1Corinthians1:16 I baptised also the house of Stephana. Furthermore know I not whether I baptised any man (of you) or no. 
1Corinthians1:17 For Christ sent me not to baptise, but to preach the gospel,(gospell) not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should have been made of none effect." 
1Corinthians1:18 For the preaching(word) of the cross is to them that perish foolishness: but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God." 
1Corinthians1:19 For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and will cast away the understanding of the prudent. 
1Corinthians1:20 Where is the wise man? where is the scribe? where is the searcher(disputers) of this world? Hath not God made the wisdom of this world foolishness? 
1Corinthians1:21 For when the world thorow wisdom knew not God, in the wisdom of God: it pleased God thorow foolishness of preaching to save them that believe." 
1Corinthians1:22 For the jews require a sign,(tokens) and the greeks seek(ask) after wisdom." 
1Corinthians1:23 But we preach Christ crucified, unto the jews an occasion of falling and unto the greeks foolishness:" 
1Corinthians1:24 but unto them which are called both of jews and greeks we preach Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God." 
1Corinthians1:25 For Godly foolishness(the foolishness of God) is wiser than men: And Godly weakness(the weakness of God) is stronger than are men. 
1Corinthians1:26 Brethren look on your calling how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many of high degree are called:" 
1Corinthians1:27 But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world, to confound the wise. And (God) hath chosen the weak things of the world, to confound things which are mighty." 
1Corinthians1:28 And vile things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen yea and things of no reputation, for to bring to nought things of reputation," 
1Corinthians1:29 that no flesh should rejoice in his presence. 
1Corinthians1:30 And unto him pertain ye, in Christ Jesu, which of God is made unto us wisdom, and also righteousness, and sanctifying, and redemption." 
1Corinthians1:31 That according as it is written: he which rejoiceth, should rejoice in the Lord." 
1Corinthians2:1 And I brethren when I came to you, came not in gloriousness of(in hye words) words or of wisdom, shewing unto you the testimony of God.(preaching of Christ)" 
1Corinthians2:2 Neither shewed I myself that I knew any thing among you save(save onely) Jesus Christ, even the same that was crucified." 
1Corinthians2:3 And I was among you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling." 
1Corinthians2:4 And my words, and my preaching were not with enticing words of man's wisdom: but in shewing of the spirit and of power," 
1Corinthians2:5 that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men: but in the power of God. 
1Corinthians2:6 We speak that which(That we speak of) is wisdom among them that are perfect: not the wisdom of this world neither of the rulers of this world (which goeth to nought,)" 
1Corinthians2:7 but we speak the wisdom of God, which is in secret and lieth hid, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:" 
1Corinthians2:8 which wisdom none of the rulers of the world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory:" 
1Corinthians2:9 but as it is written: The eye hath not seen, and the ear hath not heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him." 
1Corinthians2:10 But God hath opened them unto us by his spirit. For the spirit searcheth all things, yea the bottom of God's(Goddes) secrets.(even the deepness of the God head)" 
1Corinthians2:11 For what man knoweth the things of a man: save the spirit of a man which is within him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the spirit of God." 
1Corinthians2:12 And we have not received the spirit of the world: but the spirit which cometh of God, for to know the things that are given to us of God," 
1Corinthians2:13 which things also we speak, not in the cunning words of man's wisdom, but with the cunning words of the holy ghost, making spiritual comparisons of spiritual things.(and judge spiritual matters spiritually)" 
1Corinthians2:14 For the natural man perceiveth not the things of the spirit of God: For they are but foolishness unto him. Neither can he perceive them because he is spiritually examined:(can not perceive it: for it must be spiritually discerned) 
1Corinthians2:15 but he that is spiritual discusseth all things: yet he himself is judged of no man. 
1Corinthians2:16 For who knoweth the mind of the Lord, other who shall inform him? but we understand the mind of Christ." 
1Corinthians3:1 And I could not speak unto you brethren as unto spiritual: but as unto carnal, even as it were unto babes in Christ." 
1Corinthians3:2 I gave you milk to drink and not meat. For ye then were not strong, no neither yet are strong." 
1Corinthians3:3 For ye are yet carnal. As long verily as there is among you envying, strife and dissension: are ye not carnal, and walk after the manner of men?" 
1Corinthians3:4 As long as one saith: I hold of Paul, and another, I am of Apollo, are ye not carnal?" 
1Corinthians3:5 What is Paul? what thing is Apollo? but(Only) ministers (are they) by whom ye believed even as the Lord gave every man grace. 
1Corinthians3:6 I have planted: Apollo watered: but God gave increase. 
1Corinthians3:7 So then, neither is he that planteth any thing, neither he that watereth: but God which gave the increase." 
1Corinthians3:8 He that planteth, and he that watereth, are neither better than the other. Every man yet shall receive his reward according to his labour." 
1Corinthians3:9 We are God's(goddis) laborers: ye are God's(goddis) husbandry, ye are God's(goddis) building." 
1Corinthians3:10 According to the grace of God given unto me, as a wise builder have I laid the foundation, (And) another hath built thereon: but let every man take heed how he buildeth upon." 
1Corinthians3:11 For other foundation can no man lay, than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians3:12 If any man build on this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, timber, hay, or stubble:" 
1Corinthians3:13 every man's work shall appear. For the day shall declare it, and it shall be shewed in fire, and the fire shall try every man's work what it is." 
1Corinthians3:14 If any man's work that he hath built upon, bide, he shall receive a reward." 
1Corinthians3:15 If any man's work burn, he shall suffer loss: but he shall be safe himself: nevertheless yet as it were thorow fire." 
1Corinthians3:16 Are ye not ware that ye are the temple of God, and how that the spirit of God dwelleth in you?" 
1Corinthians3:17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy, which temple are ye.(ye are.)" 
1Corinthians3:18 Let no man deceive himself. If any man seem(think himself) wise among you, let him be(become) a fool in this world, that he may be wise." 
1Corinthians3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written: he compasseth the wise in their craftiness. 
1Corinthians3:20 And again, God knoweth the thoughts of the wise that they be vain." 
1Corinthians3:21 Therefore let no man rejoice in men. For all things are yours," 
1Corinthians3:22 whether it be Paul, other(either) Apollo, either Cephas: whether it be the world, either(or) life, either death, whether they be present things or things to come: all are yours," 
1Corinthians3:23 and ye are Christ's,(Christes) and Christ is God's.(goddis)" 
1Corinthians4:1 Let men this wise esteem us, even as the ministers of Christ, and disposers(stewards) of the secrets of God." 
1Corinthians4:2 Furthermore it is required of the disposers(stewards) that they be found faithful. 
1Corinthians4:3 With me is it but a very small thing, that I should be judged of you, either of man's day. No I judge not mine own self." 
1Corinthians4:4 I know nought by myself: yet am I not thereby justified. It is the Lord that judgeth me. 
1Corinthians4:5 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, which will lighten things that are hid in darkness: and open the counsels of the hearts. And then shall every man have praise of God." 
1Corinthians4:6 These things brethren I have described in mine own person, and Apollos: for your sakes, that ye might learn by us that no man count of himself beyond that which is above written: that one swell not against another for any man's cause." 
1Corinthians4:7 For who preferreth thee? What hast thou, that thou hast not received? if thou have received it: why rejoicest(boastest) thou as though thou hadst(haddest) not received it?" 
1Corinthians4:8 Now ye are full: now ye are made rich: ye reign as kings without us: and I would to God ye did reign, that we might reign with you." 
1Corinthians4:9 Me thinketh that God hath shewed(set forth) us which are apostles, for the hindmost(lowest) of all, as it were men appointed to death. For we are a gazingstock unto the world, and to the angels, and to men," 
1Corinthians4:10 we are fools for Christ's(Christes) sake, and ye are wise thorow Christ: we are weak, and ye are strong. Ye are honorable, and we are despised." 
1Corinthians4:11 Even unto this day we hunger and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted with fists, and have no certain dwelling place," 
1Corinthians4:12 and labour working with our own hands. We are reviled, and yet we bless. We are persecuted, and suffer it." 
1Corinthians4:13 We are evil spoken of, and we pray. We are made as it were the filthiness(become as it were very outsweepings) of the world, the offscouring of all things, even unto this time." 
1Corinthians4:14 I write not these things to shame you: but as my beloved sons(dear children) I warn you. 
1Corinthians4:15 For though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ: yet have ye not many fathers. In Christ Jesu, I have begotten you thorow the gospel.(gospell)" 
1Corinthians4:16 Wherefore I desire(exhort) you to counterfeit(follow) me. (as I follow Christ) 
1Corinthians4:17 For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, which is my dear son, and faithful in the Lord, which shall put you in remembrance of my ways which I have in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in all congregations." 
1Corinthians4:18 Some swell(are puft up) as though I would come no more at you: 
1Corinthians4:19 but I will come to you shortly, if God will, and will know, not the words of them which swell,(that are puft up) but the power." 
1Corinthians4:20 For the Kingdom of God is not in words, but in power." 
1Corinthians4:21 What will ye? Shall I come unto you with a rod, or else in love, and in the spirit of meekness?" 
1Corinthians5:1 There goeth a common saying(report) that there is fornication(whoredom) among you, and such fornication(whoredom) as is not once named among the gentiles:(heathen) that one should have his father's wife." 
1Corinthians5:2 And ye swell(are puft up) and have not rather sorrowed, that he which hath done this deed might be put from among you." 
1Corinthians5:3 For I verily as absent in body, even so present in spirit, have determined already (as though I were present) of him that hath done this deed," 
1Corinthians5:4 in the name of our Lord Jesu Christ, when ye are gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of the Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Corinthians5:5 to deliver him unto Satan, for the destruction of the flesh that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus." 
1Corinthians5:6 Your rejoicing is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven sowereth the whole lump of dough? 
1Corinthians5:7 Purge therefore the old leaven, that ye may be new dough as ye are sweet bread. For Christ our ester lamb is offered up for us." 
1Corinthians5:8 Therefore let us keep holyday, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of maliciousness and wickedness but with the sweet bread of pureness and truth." 
1Corinthians5:9 I wrote unto you in the(an) pistel(Epistle) that ye should not company with fornicators.(have nothing to do with whoremongers) 
1Corinthians5:10 And I meant not at all of the fornicators(whoremongers) of this world, either of the covetous, or of extortioners, either of (the) idolaters:(that worhsip images) for then must ye needs have gone out of the world:" 
1Corinthians5:11 but now I have written(write) unto you that ye company not together. If any that is called a brother, be a fornicator, or covetous, or a worshipper of images, either a railer, either a drunkard, or an extortioner: with him that is such see (that) ye eat not." 
1Corinthians5:12 For what have I to do to judge them which are without? Do ye not judge them that are within? 
1Corinthians5:13 Them that are without, God shall judge. Put away from among you that evil person." 
1Corinthians6:1 How dare one of you having business with another, go to law under the wicked? and not rather under the saints?" 
1Corinthians6:2 Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? If the world shall be judged by(off) you: are ye not good enough to judge small trifles.(matters) 
1Corinthians6:3 Know ye not how that we shall judge the angels? How much more may we judge things that pertain to the life?(temporal life?) 
1Corinthians6:4 If ye have judgements of worldly(temporal) matters, take them which are despised in the congregation, and make them judges." 
1Corinthians6:5 This I say to your shame. Is there utterly no wise man among you? what not one at all? that can judge between brother and brother? 
1Corinthians6:6 but one brother goeth to law with another: and that under(before) the unbelievers? 
1Corinthians6:7 Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why rather suffer ye not wrong? why rather suffer ye not yourselves to be robbed?(defrauded)" 
1Corinthians6:8 Nay ye yourselves do wrong, and rob:(defraud) and that the brethren." 
1Corinthians6:9 Do ye not remember how that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived. For neither fornicators,(breakers of wedlock) neither worshippers of images, neither whoremongers, neither weaklings, neither abusers of themselves with mankind," 
1Corinthians6:10 neither thieves, neither the covetous, neither drunkards, neither cursed speakers, neither pillers,(extortioners) shall inherit the kingdom of God." 
1Corinthians6:11 And such were ye verily: but ye are washed: ye are sanctified: ye are justified(made righteous) by the name of the Lord Jesus: And by the spirit of our God. 
1Corinthians6:12 All things are lawful unto me: but all things are not profitable. I may do all things: but I will be brought under no man's power. 
1Corinthians6:13 Meats are ordained for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy both him (it) and them. Let not the body be applied unto fornication,(whoredom) but unto the Lord, and the Lord unto the body." 
1Corinthians6:14 God hath raised up the Lord, and shall raise us up by his power." 
1Corinthians6:15 Other(Ether) remember ye not, that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I now take the members of Christe, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid." 
1Corinthians6:16 Do ye not understand(Or do ye not know) that he which coupleth himself with an harlot, is become one body? For two (saith he) shall be one flesh:" 
1Corinthians6:17 but he that is joined(cleaveth) unto the Lord is one spirit. 
1Corinthians6:18 Flee fornication.(whoredom) All sins that a man doth, are without the body. But he that is a fornicator, sinneth against his own body." 
1Corinthians6:19 (Ether) Know ye not how that your bodies are the temple of the holy ghost, which is in you, whom he have of God, and how that ye are not your own?" 
1Corinthians6:20 For ye are dearly bought. Therefore glorify(Praise) ye God in your bodies and in your spirits, for they are God's.(goddis)" 
1Corinthians7:1 As concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me: It is good for a man, not to touch a woman." 
1Corinthians7:2 Nevertheless to avoid fornication,(whoredom) let every man have his wife: and let every woman have her husband." 
1Corinthians7:3 Let the man give unto the wife due benevolence. Likewise also the wife unto the man. 
1Corinthians7:4 The wife hath not power over her own body: but the husband: And likewise the man hath not power over his own body: but the wife. 
1Corinthians7:5 Withdraw not your selves one from another except it be with consent for a time, for to give yourselves to fasting and prayer, and afterward come again to the same thing, lest Satan tempt you for your incontinency." 
1Corinthians7:6 This I say of favour, not of commandment." 
1Corinthians7:7 For I would that all men were as I my self am: but every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, another after that." 
1Corinthians7:8 I say unto the unmarried men, and widows: it is good for them if they abide even as I do:" 
1Corinthians7:9 but and if they cannot abstain, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to burn." 
1Corinthians7:10 Unto the married command not I, but the Lord: that the wife separate not herself from the man." 
1Corinthians7:11 If she separate herself, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled unto her husband again. And let not the husband put away his wife from him." 
1Corinthians7:12 To the remnant speak I, and not the Lord: if any brother have a wife that believeth not, if she be content to dwell with him, let him not put her away." 
1Corinthians7:13 And the woman which hath to her husband an infidel, if he consent(unbelieving husband, and he is content) to dwell with her, let her not put him away." 
1Corinthians7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife: and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Or else were your children unclean: but now are they pure.(holy) 
1Corinthians7:15 But and if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not in subjection to such.(bond in such cases) God hath called us in peace." 
1Corinthians7:16 For how knowest thou o woman, whether thou shalt save thy husband or not?(whether thou shalt save that man or no?) Other how knowest thou o man, whether thou shalt save the wife or not?(whether thou shalt save that woman or no?)" 
1Corinthians7:17 but even as God hath distributed to every man. As the Lord hath called every person, so let him walk: and so ordain I in all congregations." 
1Corinthians7:18 If any man be called being circumcised, let him add nothing thereto. If any be called uncircumcised: let him not be circumcised." 
1Corinthians7:19 Circumcision is nothing, uncircumcision is nothing: but the keeping of the commandments of God is altogether." 
1Corinthians7:20 Let every man abide in the same state wherein he was called. 
1Corinthians7:21 Art thou called a servant? care not for it. Nevertheless if thou mayst be free, use it rather." 
1Corinthians7:22 For he that is called in the Lord being a servant, is the Lord's freeman. Likewise he that is called being free, is Christ's(Christes) servant." 
1Corinthians7:23 Ye are dearly bought, be not men's servants." 
1Corinthians7:24 Brethren let every man wherein he is called, therein abide with God." 
1Corinthians7:25 As concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord: yet give I counsel as one that hath obtained (mercy) of the Lord to be faithful." 
1Corinthians7:26 I suppose that it is good for the present necessity. For it is good for a man so to be. 
1Corinthians7:27 Art thou bound unto a wife? seek not to be loosed.(lowsed) Art thou loosed(lowsed) from a wife? seek not a wife. 
1Corinthians7:28 But and if thou take a wife, thou hast not sinned.(sinnest not.) Likewise if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned:(sinneth not.) nevertheless such shall have trouble in their flesh: but I favor(saver) you." 
1Corinthians7:29 This say I brethren, the time is short. It remaineth that(Furthermore this is the meaning, that) they which have wives, be as though they had none:" 
1Corinthians7:30 and they that weep, be as though they wept not: and they that rejoice, be as though they rejoiced not: And they that buy, be as though they possessed not:" 
1Corinthians7:31 And they that use this world, be as though they used it not: For the fashion of this world goeth(passeth) away." 
1Corinthians7:32 I would have you without care, the single man careth for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord:" 
1Corinthians7:33 but he that hath married, careth for the things of the world, how he may please his wife. (and is devided)" 
1Corinthians7:34 There is difference between a virgin and a wife. The single woman careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be pure(holy) both in body and also in spirit: but she that is married, careth for the things of the world, how she may please her husband." 
1Corinthians7:35 This speak I for your profit, not to tangle you in a snare: but for that which is honest and comely unto you; And that ye may quietly cleave unto the Lord without separation.(hinderance)" 
1Corinthians7:36 If any man think that it is uncomely for his virgin if she pass the time of marriage, and if so need require, let him do what he listeth, he sinneth not: let them be coupled in marriage." 
1Corinthians7:37 Nevertheless, he that purposeth surely in his heart, having none need: but hath power over his own will: and hath so decreed(determine) in his heart that he will keep his virgin, doth well." 
1Corinthians7:38 So then he that joineth his virgin in marriage doth well. And(But) he that joineth not his virgin in marriage doth better. 
1Corinthians7:39 The wife is bound to the law as long as her husband liveth. If her husband sleep, she is at liberty to marry with whom she will only in the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:40 But she is happier if she so abide, in my judgement. And I think verily that I have the spirit of God." 
1Corinthians8:1 To speak of things dedicated unto idols,(As touching things offered unto Idols) we are sure that we all have knowledge. Knowledge maketh a man swell: but love edifieth." 
1Corinthians8:2 If any man think that he knoweth any thing, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know." 
1Corinthians8:3 But if any man love God, the same is known of him." 
1Corinthians8:4 To speak of meat dedicated unto idols, we are sure that there is none idol(So are we sure now concerning the meats offered unto Idols, that an Idol is nothing) in the world: and that there is none other God but one." 
1Corinthians8:5 And though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth (as there be gods many and lords many)" 
1Corinthians8:6 but(yet) unto us is there(but) one God, which is the father, of whom are all things, and we in him: and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him." 
1Corinthians8:7 But every man hath not knowledge. For some suppose that there is an idol, until this hour, and eat as of a thing offered unto the idol, and so their consciences being yet weak are defiled." 
1Corinthians8:8 Meat maketh us not acceptable to God: Neither if we eat are we the better: Neither if we eat not are we the worse.(less) 
1Corinthians8:9 But take heed that your liberty cause not the weak to fall.(be not an occasion of falling unto the weak) 
1Corinthians8:10 For if some man see thee which hast knowledge sit at meat in the idol's temple shall not the conscience of him which is weak be boldened(occasioned) to eat those things which are offered unto the idol? 
1Corinthians8:11 And so thorow thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish for whom Christ died. 
1Corinthians8:12 When we(ye) sin so against the brethren and wound their weak consciences, we(ye) sin against Christ." 
1Corinthians8:13 Wherefore if meat hurt(offend) my brother, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, because I will not hurt(lest i offend) my brother." 
1Corinthians9:1 Am I not an apostle? am I not free? have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are not ye my work in the Lord. 
1Corinthians9:2 If I be not an apostle unto other, yet am I unto you. For the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord." 
1Corinthians9:3 Mine answer to them that ask me, is this:" 
1Corinthians9:4 Have we not power to eat and to drink? 
1Corinthians9:5 Either have we not power to lead about a sister to wife as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?" 
1Corinthians9:6 Either only I and Barnabas have not power this to do? 
1Corinthians9:7 Who goeth a warfare any time at his own cost?(upon his own wages?) who planteth a vineyard and eateth not of the fruit?(fruit thereof?) or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk? 
1Corinthians9:8 Say I these things after the manner of men? or sayth not the law the same also? 
1Corinthians9:9 For it is written in the law of Moses: Thou shall not muzzle(mosell) the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take thought for oxen? 
1Corinthians9:10 Either(Or) saith he it not all together for our sakes? For our sakes no doubt this is written: that he which eareth should ear in(upon) hope: and that he which thresheth in(upon) hope, should(that he might) be partaker of his hope." 
1Corinthians9:11 If we sow unto you spiritual things: is it a great thing if we reap your carnal things? 
1Corinthians9:12 If other be partakers of this power over you? wherefore are not we rather. Nevertheless we have not used this power: but suffer all things lest we should hinder the gospel(gospell) of Christ. 
1Corinthians9:13 Do ye not understand how that they which minister in the temple: have their finding(living) of the temple? And they which wait at the altar are partakers with(enjoy) the altar? 
1Corinthians9:14 Even so also did the Lord ordain, that they which preach the gospel,(gospell) should live of the gospel:(gospell)" 
1Corinthians9:15 But I have used none of these things. Neither wrote I these things that it should be so done unto me.(For) It were better for me to die than any man should take this rejoicing from me. 
1Corinthians9:16 In that I preach the gospel(gospell) I have nothing to rejoice of.(I need not boast my self) For necessity is put unto me.(for I must needs do it) Woe is it unto me if I preach not the gospel.(gospell) 
1Corinthians9:17 If I do it with a good will, I have a reward.(But) If I do it against my will, an office is committed unto me." 
1Corinthians9:18 What is my reward then? Verily that when I preach the gospel,(gospell) I make the gospel(gospell) of Christ free, that I misuse not mine authority(abuse not my liberty) in the gospel." 
1Corinthians9:19 For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all men, that I might win the more." 
1Corinthians9:20 And unto the jews, I became as a jew, to win the jews. To them that were under the law, was I made as though I had been under the law, to win them that were under the law. (when I was not under the law)" 
1Corinthians9:21 To them that were without law, became I as though I had been without law (when I was not without law as pertaining to God, but under a law as concerning Christ) to win them that were without law." 
1Corinthians9:22 To the weak became I as weak, to win the weak. In all thing I fashioned myself to all men, to save at the leastway some." 
1Corinthians9:23 And this I do for the Gospel's sake, that I might have my part thereof." 
1Corinthians9:24 Perceive ye not how that they which run in a course, run all, yet but one receiveth the reward? So run that ye may obtain." 
1Corinthians9:25 Every man that proveth masteries abstaineth from all things. And they do it to obtain a corruptible crown: but we to obtain an everlasting(uncorruptible) crown: 
1Corinthians9:26 I therefore so run, not as at an uncertain thing. So fight I, not as one that beateth the air:" 
1Corinthians9:27 but I tame my body and bring him(it) into subjection, lest after that I have preached to other, I myself should be a castaway." 
1Corinthians10:1 Brethren I would not that ye should be ignorant of this, how that our fathers were all under a cloud, and all passed thorow the sea," 
1Corinthians10:2 and were all baptised under Moses in the cloud and in the sea: 
1Corinthians10:3 and did all eat of one spiritual meat," 
1Corinthians10:4 and did all drink of one manner of spiritual drink. And they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, which rock was Christ." 
1Corinthians10:5 But in many of them had God no delight. For they were overthrown(smitten down) in the wilderness. 
1Corinthians10:6 These are examples to us that we should not lust after evil things, as they lusted." 
1Corinthians10:7 Neither be ye worshippers of images as were some of them according as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up again to play." 
1Corinthians10:8 Neither let us commit fornication(whoredom) as some of them committed fornication,(whoredom) and were destroyed(fell) in one day twenty three thousand." 
1Corinthians10:9 Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them tempted and were destroyed of serpents." 
1Corinthians10:10 Neither murmur ye as some of them murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer." 
1Corinthians10:11 All these things happened upon them for ensamples, and were written to put us in remembrance,(to warn us) whom the ends of the world are come upon." 
1Corinthians10:12 Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall." 
1Corinthians10:13 There hath none other temptation taken you,(yet no temptation overtaken you) but such as followeth the nature of man. God is faithful, which shall not suffer you to be tempted above your strength: but shall in the midst of the temptation make a way to escape out.(that ye may bear it)" 
1Corinthians10:14 Wherefore my dear beloved, flee from worshipping of idols." 
1Corinthians10:15 I speak as unto them which have discretion, judge ye what I say." 
1Corinthians10:16 Is not the cup of blessing which we bless,(thanksgiving wherewith we give thanks) partaking of the blood of Christ? is not the bread which we break, partaking of the body of Christ?" 
1Corinthians10:17 because that we (though we be many) yet are one bread, and one body inasmuch as we all are partakers of one bread. (and of one cup)" 
1Corinthians10:18 Behold Israel which walketh carnally.(after the flesh) Are not they which eat of the sacrifice, partakers of the altar?" 
1Corinthians10:19 What say I then? that the image(Idoll) is anything? or that it which is offered to images(the Idoll) is anything? 
1Corinthians10:20 Nay, but I say, that those(these) things which the gentiles(Heathen) offer, they offer to devils, and not to God. And I would not that ye should have fellowship with the devils." 
1Corinthians10:21 Ye cannot drink of the cup of the Lord, and of the cup of the devils. Ye can not be partakers of the Lord's table, and of the table of devils." 
1Corinthians10:22 Other(Either) shall we provoke the Lord? other(Or) are we stronger than he? 
1Corinthians10:23 All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient.(I may do all things, but all things are not profitable) All things are lawful, (to me) but all things edify not." 
1Corinthians10:24 Let no man seek his own profit: but let every man seek his neighbors(seek another's) wealth. 
1Corinthians10:25 Whatsoever is sold in the market, that eat, and ask no questions for conscience sake." 
1Corinthians10:26 For the earth is the Lord's,(lordis) and all that therein is." 
1Corinthians10:27 If any of them which believe not bid you to a feast, and if ye be disposed to go, whatsoever is set before you eat, asking no question for conscience sake;" 
1Corinthians10:28 but and if any man say unto you: this is dedicated(offered) unto idols, eat not of it for his sake that shewed it, and for hurting of conscience: the earth is the Lord's and all that therein is." 
1Corinthians10:29 Conscience I say, not thine: but the conscience of that other. (For) Why should my liberty be judged of another man's conscience?" 
1Corinthians10:30 For if I take my part with thanks:(thanksgiving) why am I evil spoken of for that thing wherefore I give thanks? 
1Corinthians10:31 Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the praise of God." 
1Corinthians10:32 See that ye give none occasion of evil,(falling) neither to the jews, nor yet to the gentiles, neither to the congregation of God:" 
1Corinthians10:33 even as I please all men in all things not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many, that they might be saved." 
1Corinthians11:1 Follow me as I do Christ. 
1Corinthians11:2 I commend you brethren that ye remember me in all things, and keep the ordinances which I gave(even as I delivered them) to you." 
1Corinthians11:3 I would ye knew(But I certify you) that Christ is the head of every man; and the woman's head is the man; and Christ's(Christes) head is God.(And the man is the womans head. And God is Christes head.) 
1Corinthians11:4 Every man praying or prophesying having any thing on his head, shameth his head." 
1Corinthians11:5 Every woman that prayeth or prophesieth bare headed,(uncovered head) dishonesteth her head. For it is even all one, and the very same thing even as though she were shaven." 
1Corinthians11:6 If the woman be not covered, let her also be shaven.(shorn.) If it be shame for a woman to be shaven or shorn, let her cover her head." 
1Corinthians11:7 A man ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God. The woman is the glory of the man." 
1Corinthians11:8 For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man." 
1Corinthians11:9 Neither was the man created for the woman's sake: but the woman for the man's sake. 
1Corinthians11:10 For this cause ought the woman to have power in(on) her head, for the angels' sake.(sakes)" 
1Corinthians11:11 Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." 
1Corinthians11:12 For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man by the woman: but all is of God." 
1Corinthians11:13 Judge in yourselves whether it be comely that a woman pray unto God bareheaded. 
1Corinthians11:14 Or else doth not nature teach you, that it is a shame for a man, if he have long hair:" 
1Corinthians11:15 and a praise to a woman if she have long hair? For her hair is given her to cover her withal. 
1Corinthians11:16 If there be any man among you that lusteth to strive, let him know that we have no such customs, neither the congregations of God." 
1Corinthians11:17 This I warn you of, and commend not that ye come together after a worse manner, and not after a better.(not after a better manner but after a worse.)" 
1Corinthians11:18 First of all when ye come together in the congregation, I hear that there is dissension among you: And I partly believe it." 
1Corinthians11:19 For there must be sects among you, that they which among you are perfect might be known." 
1Corinthians11:20 When ye come together in one place, a man cannot eat the Lord's supper." 
1Corinthians11:21 For every man beginneth afore to eat his own supper. And one is hungry, and another is drunken." 
1Corinthians11:22 Have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? Or else despise ye the congregation of God? and shame them that have not? what shall I say unto you? shall I praise you? in this praise I you not. 
1Corinthians11:23 That which I gave(I delivered) unto you I received of the Lord. For the Lord Jesus the same night in the which he was betrayed, took bread:" 
1Corinthians11:24 and thanked and brake, and said: Take ye, and eat ye this is my body which is broken for you. This do ye in the remembrance of me." 
1Corinthians11:25 After the same manner he took the cup when supper was done saying: This cup is the new testament in my blood, this do as oft as ye drink it, in the remembrance of me." 
1Corinthians11:26 For as often as ye shall eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye shall shew the Lord's death, till he come." 
1Corinthians11:27 Wherefore whosoever shall eat of this bread, or drink of the cup unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord." 
1Corinthians11:28 Let a man therefore examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup." 
1Corinthians11:29 For he that eateth or drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh his own damnation, because he maketh no difference of the Lord's(lordis) body." 
1Corinthians11:30 For this cause many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep." 
1Corinthians11:31 If we had truly judged ourselves, we should not have been judged." 
1Corinthians11:32 (But) When we are judged of the Lord we are chastened, because we should not be damned with the world." 
1Corinthians11:33 Wherefore my brethren, when ye come together(togedder) to eat, tarry one for another." 
1Corinthians11:34 If any man hunger, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation. Other things will I set in order when I come." 
1Corinthians12:1 In spiritual things brethren I would not have you ignorant. 
1Corinthians12:2 Ye know that ye were gentiles,(Heithen) and went your ways unto dumb idols, even as ye were led." 
1Corinthians12:3 Wherefore I declare unto you that no man speaking in(thorow) the spirit of God defieth Jesus. Also no man can say that Jesus is the Lord: but by the holy ghost. 
1Corinthians12:4 There are diversities of gifts verily, yet but one spirit." 
1Corinthians12:5 And there are differences of administrations, and yet but one Lord." 
1Corinthians12:6 And there are divers manners of operations, and yet but one God, which worketh all things that are wrought in all creatures." 
1Corinthians12:7 The gifts of the spirit are given to every man to profit the congregation. 
1Corinthians12:8 To one(won) is given (thorow the spirit) the utterance of wisdom: to another is given the utterance of knowledge by(according to) the same spirit: 
1Corinthians12:9 to another is given faith, by the same spirit. To another the gifts of healing, by the same spirit." 
1Corinthians12:10 To another power to do miracles: To another prophecy; To another judgement of spirits;(judgement to discern spirits) To another divers tongues: To another the interpretation of tongues: 
1Corinthians12:11 and these all worketh even the self same spirit, dividing to every man several gifts even as he will.(These all doth the same onely spirit work, and distributeth unto every man, according as he will)" 
1Corinthians12:12 For as the body is one, and hath many members, and(nevertheless) all the members of one body though they be many, yet are but one body: even so is Christ." 
1Corinthians12:13 For in one spirit are we all baptised to make one body, whether we be jews or gentiles: whether we be bond or free, and have all drunk of one spirit." 
1Corinthians12:14 For the body is not one member, but many." 
1Corinthians12:15 If the foot say: I am not the hand, therefore I am not (a member) of the body: is he therefore not (a member) of the body?" 
1Corinthians12:16 and if the ear say I am not the eye: therefore I am not (a member) of the body: is he therefore not (a member) of the body? 
1Corinthians12:17 if all the body were an eye: where were then the ear? if all were hearing: where were the(where then the) smelling? 
1Corinthians12:18 But now hath God disposed(set) the members, every one of them(one severally) in the body, at his own pleasure." 
1Corinthians12:19 If they were all one member: where were the body? 
1Corinthians12:20 Now are there many members, yet but one body." 
1Corinthians12:21 And the eye cannot say unto the hand: I have no need of thee: nor the head also to the feet: I have no need of you. 
1Corinthians12:22 Yea rather a great deal those members of the body which seem to be most feeble, are most necessary." 
1Corinthians12:23 And upon those members of that body which we think least honest, put we most honesty on. And our ungoodly(uncomely) parts(?later editions have:ungodly parties) have most beauty on." 
1Corinthians12:24 For our honest members need it not: but God hath so disposed(measured) the body, and hath given most honour to that part which lacked,(member which had need)" 
1Corinthians12:25 lest there should be any strife in the body: but that the members should indifferently care for one another. 
1Corinthians12:26 And if one member suffer all suffer with him: if one member be had in honour, all members be glad also." 
1Corinthians12:27 Ye are the body of Christ, and members one of another." 
1Corinthians12:28 And God hath also ordained in the congregation, first the apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, then them that do(doers of) miracles, after that, the gifts of healing, helpers, governors, diversity of tongues." 
1Corinthians12:29 Are all apostles? are all prophets? Are all teachers? are all doers of miracles? 
1Corinthians12:30 have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? 
1Corinthians12:31 Covet after the best gifts. And yet shew I unto you a more excellent way. 
1Corinthians13:1 Though I spake with the tongues of men and angels, and yet had no love, I were even as sounding brass: and(or) as a tinkling cymbal." 
1Corinthians13:2 And though I could prophesy, and understood all secrets, and all knowledge: yea, if I had all faith so that I could move mountains out of their places, and yet had no love, I were nothing." 
1Corinthians13:3 And though I bestowed all my goods to feed the poor, and though I gave my body even that I burned, and yet had no love, it profiteth me nothing." 
1Corinthians13:4 Love suffereth long,(is patient) and is courteous. Love envieth not. Love doth not frowardly, swelleth not,(is not puft up)" 
1Corinthians13:5 dealeth not dishonestly, seeketh not her own, is not provoked to anger, thinketh not evil" 
1Corinthians13:6 rejoiceth not in(over) iniquity: but rejoiceth in the truth," 
1Corinthians13:7 suffereth(beareth) all things, believeth all things hopeth all things, endureth in(suffereth) all things." 
1Corinthians13:8 Though that prophesying fail, or tongues shall cease, or knowledge vanish away:(knowledge perish) yet love falleth never away." 
1Corinthians13:9 For our knowledge is unperfect, and our prophesying is unperfect:" 
1Corinthians13:10 but when that which is perfect is come: then that which is unperfect shall be done away. 
1Corinthians13:11 When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I imagined as a child: but as soon as I was a man I put away childishness." 
1Corinthians13:12 Now we see in(thorow) a glass even in a dark speaking: but then shall we see face to face. Now I know unperfectly: but then shall I know even as I am known. 
1Corinthians13:13 Now abideth faith, hope, and love, even these three: but the chief(greatest) of these is love." 
1Corinthians14:1 Labour for love, and covet spiritual gifts: and most chiefly for to prophesy." 
1Corinthians14:2 For he that speaketh with tongues speaketh not unto men, but unto God. (For) No man heareth him: For(Howbeit) in the spirit he speaketh mysteries." 
1Corinthians14:3 But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men, for their(to) edifying, (to exhortation) and(to) comfort." 
1Corinthians14:4 He that speaketh with tongues, profiteth himself: he that prophesieth edifieth the congregation." 
1Corinthians14:5 I would that ye all spake with tongues: but rather that ye prophesied. For greater is he that prophesieth, than he that speaketh with tongues, except he expound it also, that the congregation may have edifying." 
1Corinthians14:6 Now brethren if I come unto you speaking with tongues: what shall I profit you? except I speak unto(to) you, either by revelation, or knowledge, or prophesying, or doctrine." 
1Corinthians14:7 Moreover when things without life give sound: whether it be a pipe, or an harp: except they make a distinction in the sounds: how shall it be known what is piped or harped?" 
1Corinthians14:8 And also if the trumpet give an uncertain voice,(sound) who shall prepare himself to fight?(the battle)" 
1Corinthians14:9 Even so likewise when ye speak with tongues, except ye speak words that have signification,(plain words) how shall it be understood(known) what is spoken? For ye shall but speak in the air." 
1Corinthians14:10 Many kinds of voices are in the world, and none of them are(is) without signification." 
1Corinthians14:11 If I know not what the voice meaneth, I shall be unto him that speaketh an alien: and he that speaketh shall be an alien unto me." 
1Corinthians14:12 Even so ye (forasmuch as ye covet spiritual gifts) seek that ye may have plenty unto the edifying of the congregation. 
1Corinthians14:13 Wherefore let him that speaketh with tongues, pray that he may interpret also." 
1Corinthians14:14 If I pray with tongues, my spirit prayeth: but my mind is without fruit.(my understanding bringeth no man fruit)" 
1Corinthians14:15 What is it then? (Namely thus:) I will pray with my(the) spirit, and will pray with my(the) mind(understanding) also. I will sing(sing Psalms) with my(the) spirit, and will sing with my(the) mind also.(the understanding also)" 
1Corinthians14:16 For else when thou blessest(givest thanks) with the spirit, how shall he that occupieth the room of the unlearned say amen at thy giving of thanks? seeing he understandeth not(knoweth not) what thou sayest?" 
1Corinthians14:17 Thou verily givest thanks well: but the other is not edified. 
1Corinthians14:18 I thank my God, I speak with tongues more than ye all." 
1Corinthians14:19 Yet had I lever in the congregation to speak five words with my mind to the information of other,(my understanding that I may enform other also)(others) rather than ten thousand words with the tongue." 
1Corinthians14:20 Brethren, be not children in wit:(understanding) (Howbeit) as concerning maliciousness be children: but in wit(understanding) be perfect." 
1Corinthians14:21 In the law it is written, with other tongues, and with other lips will I speak unto this people, and yet for all that will they not hear me saith the Lord." 
1Corinthians14:22 Wherefore tongues are for a sign,(token) not to them that believe: but to them that believe not. Contrariwise prophesying serveth not for them that believe not: but for them which believe." 
1Corinthians14:23 If therefore when all the congregation is come together, and all speak with tongues, there come in they that are unlearned, or they which believe not: will they not say that ye are out of your wits?" 
1Corinthians14:24 But and if all prophesy, and there come in one that believeth not, or one unlearned, he is reproved(rebuked) of all men, and is judged of every man:" 
1Corinthians14:25 and so are the secrets of his heart opened: and then(so) falleth he down on his face, and worshippeth God, and saith that God is with you indeed.(and knowledging, that of a truth God is in you)" 
1Corinthians14:26 How is it then brethren? when ye come together every man hath his song,(psalm) hath his doctrine, hath his tongue, hath his revelation, hath his interpretation: Let all things be (done) unto edifying." 
1Corinthians14:27 If any man speak with tongues, let it be two at once: or at the most three at once: and that by course,(one after another) and let another interpret it:" 
1Corinthians14:28 But if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the congregation, and let him speak to himself, and to God." 
1Corinthians14:29 Let the prophets speak two at once, or three at once, and let other judge." 
1Corinthians14:30 If any revelation be made to another that sitteth by, let the first hold his peace." 
1Corinthians14:31 For ye may all prophesy one by one,(one after another) that all may learn, and all may have comfort." 
1Corinthians14:32 For the spirits of the prophets are in the power of(are subject unto) the prophets. 
1Corinthians14:33 For God is not causer of strife:(is not a God of discention) but of peace, as (i teach) he is in all other congregations of the saints." 
1Corinthians14:34 Let your wives keep silence in the congregations. For it is not permitted unto them to speak: but let them be under obedience, as saith the law:" 
1Corinthians14:35 if they will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is a shame for(it becometh not) women to speak in the congregation." 
1Corinthians14:36 Sprang the word of God from you? Either came it unto you only? 
1Corinthians14:37 If any man think himself a prophet either spiritual: let him understand,(know) what things I write unto you. For they are the commandments of the Lord." 
1Corinthians14:38 But and if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant." 
1Corinthians14:39 Wherefore brethren covet to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues." 
1Corinthians14:40 (And) Let all things be done honestly and in order. (among you) 
1Corinthians15:1 Brethren as pertaining to the gospel(gospell) which I preached unto you, which ye have also accepted, and in the which ye continue:(stand)" 
1Corinthians15:2 by the which also ye are saved, I do you to wit after what manner I preached unto you, if ye keep it, except ye have believed in vain." 
1Corinthians15:3 For first of all I delivered unto you that which I received: how that Christ died for our sins, agreeing(according) to the scriptures:" 
1Corinthians15:4 and that he was buried, and that he arose again the third day according to the scriptures:" 
1Corinthians15:5 and that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve;" 
1Corinthians15:6 After that he was seen of more than five hundred brethren at once: of which many remain unto this day, and many are fallen asleep." 
1Corinthians15:7 After that appeared he to James, then to all the apostles." 
1Corinthians15:7 After that appeared he to James, then to all the apostles." 
1Corinthians15:8 And last of all he was seen of me, as of one that was born out of due time." 
1Corinthians15:9 For I am the least of all the apostles, which am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the congregation of God:" 
1Corinthians15:10 But by the favour(grace) of God I am that I am. And his favour(grace) which is in me was not in vain: but I laboured more abundantly than they all, (yet) not I, but the favour(grace) of God which is with me." 
1Corinthians15:11 Whether it were I or they, so have we preach, and so have ye believed." 
1Corinthians15:12 If Christ be preached how that he rose from death:(the dead:) how say some that are among you, that there is no resurrection of the dead?" 
1Corinthians15:13 If there be no rising again(resurrection) of death:(the dead:) then is Christ not risen. 
1Corinthians15:14 If Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also in vain." 
1Corinthians15:15 Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God. For we have testified against(of) god how that he raised up Christ, whom he raised not up, if it be so that the dead rise not up again." 
1Corinthians15:16 For if the dead rise not again, then is Christ not risen again." 
1Corinthians15:17 If it be so that Christ rose not, then is your faith in vain, and yet are ye in your sins." 
1Corinthians15:18 And (thereto) they which are fallen asleep in Christ, are perished." 
1Corinthians15:19 If in this life only we believe(hope) on Christ, then are we of all men the miserablest." 
1Corinthians15:20 (But) Now is Christ risen from death,(the dead) and is become the first fruits of them that slept." 
1Corinthians15:21 For by a man came death, and by a man came resurrection of death.(the dead.)" 
1Corinthians15:22 For as by Adam all die: even so by Christ, shall all be made alive," 
1Corinthians15:23 and every man in his own order: The first is Christ, then they that are(belong unto) Christ's(Christis) at his coming.(when he commeth)" 
1Corinthians15:24 Then cometh the end, when he hath delivered up the kingdom to God the father, when he hath put down all rule, authority,(and all superiority) and power." 
1Corinthians15:25 For he must rule(reign) till he have put all his enemies under his feet. 
1Corinthians15:26 The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. 
1Corinthians15:27 For he hath put all things under his feet. But when he saith, all things are put under him, it is manifest, that he is excepted, which did put all things under him." 
1Corinthians15:28 When all things are subdued unto him: then shall the son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all things." 
1Corinthians15:29 Other(Either) else what do they which are baptised over the dead, if the dead rise not at all? why are they (then) baptised over the dead?" 
1Corinthians15:30 (Yea) And why stand we in jeopardy every hour? 
1Corinthians15:31 by our rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesu our Lord, I die daily." 
1Corinthians15:32 That I have fought with beasts at Ephesus after the manner of men, what advantageth(helpeth) it me, if the dead rise not again? Let us eat and drink, tomorrow we shall die." 
1Corinthians15:33 Be not deceived: malicious(evil) speakings corrupt good manners. 
1Corinthians15:34 Awake truly out of sleep,(right up) and sin not. For some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this unto your rebuke." 
1Corinthians15:35 But some man will(might) say: how shall the dead arise? with what(what manner of) body shall they come? (in) 
1Corinthians15:36 Thou fool, that which thou sowest, is not quickened except it die." 
1Corinthians15:37 And what sowest thou? Thou sowest not that body that shall be: but bare corn (I mean either of wheat, or of some other)" 
1Corinthians15:38 and God giveth it a body at his pleasure, to every seed a several body.(will, and unto every one of the seeds his own body)" 
1Corinthians15:39 All flesh is not one manner of flesh: but there is one manner flesh of men, another manner flesh of beasts, another manner flesh of fishes, and another of birds." 
1Corinthians15:40 There are celestial(heavenly) bodies, and there are bodies terrestrial:(earthly bodies) But the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.(but the heavenly have one glory, and the earthly another)" 
1Corinthians15:41 There is one manner glory(clearness) of the sun, and another glory(clearness) of the moon, an another glory(clearness) of the stars. For one star differeth from another in glory.(for one star excelleth another in clearness)" 
1Corinthians15:42 So is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, and riseth(shall rise) in incorruption." 
1Corinthians15:43 It is sown in dishonour, and riseth in honour.(glory) It is sown in weakness, and riseth in power." 
1Corinthians15:44 It is sown a natural body, and riseth a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body." 
1Corinthians15:45 As it is written: The first man Adam was made a living soul: and the last Adam was made a quickening spirit: 
1Corinthians15:46 but(Howbeit) that is not first which is spiritual: but that which is natural, and then that which is spiritual." 
1Corinthians15:47 The first man is of the earth, earthy: The second man is from heaven, heavenly.(the second man is the Lorde from heaven.)" 
1Corinthians15:48 As is the earthy, such are they that are earthy: And as is the heavenly, such are they that are heavenly." 
1Corinthians15:49 And as we have born the image of the earthy, so shall we bear the image of the heavenly." 
1Corinthians15:50 This say I brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Neither doth corruption inherit uncorruption." 
1Corinthians15:51 Behold I shew a mystery unto you: we shall not all sleep: but we shall all be changed," 
1Corinthians15:52 and that in a moment,(suddenly) and in the twinkling of an eye, at the sound(time) of the last trumpet. For the trumpet shall blow, and the dead shall rise incorruptible: And we shall be changed." 
1Corinthians15:53 For this corruptible must put on incorruptibility: and this mortal must put on immortality. 
1Corinthians15:54 When this corruptible hath put on incorruptibility: and this mortal hath put on immortality: then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written: Death is consumed into victory.(then shall the word be fulfilled that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory.) 
1Corinthians15:55 Death where is thy sting? Hell where is thy victory? 
1Corinthians15:56 The sting of death is sin. (:and) The strength of sin is the law: 
1Corinthians15:57 But thanks be unto God, which hath given us victory thorow our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians15:58 Therefore my dear brethren, be ye steadfast and unmoveable, always rich in the works of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know how that your labour is not in vain in the Lord." 
1Corinthians16:1 Of the gathering for the saints, as I have ordained in the congregations of Galacia, even so do ye." 
1Corinthians16:2 In(Upon) some Sabbath day(sondaye) let every one of you put aside at home, and lay up whatsoever he thinketh meet, that there be no gatherings when I come.(that the collection be not to gather when I come)" 
1Corinthians16:3 When I am come, whosoever ye shall allow by your letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem." 
1Corinthians16:4 And if it be meet that I go,(go thither also) they shall go with me." 
1Corinthians16:5 I will come unto you after I have gone over(go thorow) Macedonia. For I will go thorowout Macedonia.(for thorow Macedonia will I take my journey) 
1Corinthians16:6 With you peradventure I will abide a while: or else winter, that ye may bring me on my way whithersoever I go." 
1Corinthians16:7 I will not see you now in my passage: but I trust(hope) to abide a while with you, if God shall suffer me." 
1Corinthians16:8 I will tarry at Ephesus until witsontide: 
1Corinthians16:9 For a great door and a fruitful is opened unto me: and there are many adversaries. 
1Corinthians16:10 If Timotheus come, see that he be without fear with you. For he worketh the work of the Lord as I do." 
1Corinthians16:11 Let no man despise him: but convey him forth in peace, that he may come unto me. For I look for him with the brethren." 
1Corinthians16:12 To speak of brother Apollo: (I certify you, that) I greatly desired him to come unto you with the brethren, but his mind was not at all to come at this time. (Howbeit) He will come when he shall have convenient time.(hath opportunity)" 
1Corinthians16:13 Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, and be strong." 
1Corinthians16:14 Let all your business(things) be done in love. 
1Corinthians16:15 Brethren, ye know the house of Stephana (and of fortunatus and Archaicus) how that they are the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have appointed themselves to minister unto the saints:" 
1Corinthians16:16 I beseech(exhort) you that ye be obedient unto such, and to all that help and labour." 
1Corinthians16:17 I am glad of the coming of Stephana, Fortunatus, and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied." 
1Corinthians16:18 They have comforted my spirit and yours. Look therefore that ye know them that are such. 
1Corinthians16:19 The congregations of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, and so doeth the congregation that is in their house. (with whom also I am lodged.)" 
1Corinthians16:20 All the brethren greet(salute) you. Greet(Salute) ye one another with an holy kiss. 
1Corinthians16:21 The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand: 
1Corinthians16:22 If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, the same be anathema maranatha." 
1Corinthians16:23 The favour(grace) of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. 
1Corinthians16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesu, Amen. [The end of the first pistel unto the Corinthians, sent from Philippos; By Stephana, and Fortunatus, and Acaichus, and Timotheus.]" 
2Corinthians1:1 Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and brother Timotheus. Unto the congregation of God, which is at Corinthum, with all the saints which are in all Achaia:" 
2Corinthians1:2 Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Corinthians1:3 Blessed be God the father of our Lord Jesus the Christ, father of mercy, and the God of all comfort," 
2Corinthians1:4 which comforteth us in all our tribulation, insomuch that we are able to comfort them which are troubled, in whatsoever tribulation it be, with the same comfort wherewith we our selves are comforted of God." 
2Corinthians1:5 For as the afflictions of Christ are plenteous in us: even so is our consolation plenteous by Christ. 
2Corinthians1:6 Whether we be troubled for your consolation, and health, (Or whether we be comforted, it is for youre comfort and salvation) which health(salvation, which salvation) sheweth her power in that ye suffer the same afflictions which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted for your consolation and health:(salvation:)" 
2Corinthians1:7 yet our hope is steadfast for you inasmuch as we know how that as ye have your part in afflictions, so shall ye be partakers of consolation." 
2Corinthians1:8 Brethren I would not have you ignorant of our trouble, which happened unto us in Asia. For we were grieved out of measure passing strength, so greatly that we despaired even of life." 
2Corinthians1:9 Also we received an answer of death in ourselves, and that was done because we should not put our trust in ourselves: but in God, which raiseth the dead to life again:" 
2Corinthians1:10 (,and) Which delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver, on whom we trust, that yet hereafter he will deliver us," 
2Corinthians1:11 by the help of your prayer for us: That by the means of many occasions, thanks may be given of many on our behalf; For the grace given unto us." 
2Corinthians1:12 Our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that we without doubleness, but(that in singleness of heart and) with godly pureness: (and) not in fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, (we) have had our conversation in the world, and most of all to you-wards." 
2Corinthians1:13 We write no other things unto you, than that ye read and also know. Yea and I trust ye shall find us unto the end" 
2Corinthians1:14 even as ye have found us partly, for we are your rejoicing, even as ye are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus." 
2Corinthians1:15 And in this confidence was I minded the other time to have come unto you (that ye might have had a double pleasure,)(that ye might have had yet one pleasure more)" 
2Corinthians1:16 and to have passed by you into Macedonia, and to have come again out of Macedonia unto you, and to have been led forth to Jewry ward of you." 
2Corinthians1:17 When I thus wise was minded: Did I use lightness? Or think I carnally those things which I think? that with me should be yea yea, and nay nay." 
2Corinthians1:18 God is faithful: For our preaching(word) unto you, was not yea and nay." 
2Corinthians1:19 For God's(Goddis) son Jesus Christ which was preached among you by us (that is to say(namely) by me and Silvanus and Thimotheus) was not yea and nay: but in him it was Yea: 
2Corinthians1:20 For all the promises of God, in him are Yea: and are in him Amen, unto the laud(laud) of God thorow us.(by us)" 
2Corinthians1:21 (For) It is God which stablisheth us and you in Christ, and hath anointed us," 
2Corinthians1:22 which hath also sealed us, and hath given the earnest of the spirit into our hearts." 
2Corinthians1:23 I call God for a record unto my soul, that for to favor you withal, I came not any more unto Corinthum." 
2Corinthians1:24 Not that we be lords over your faith: but helpers of your joy. For by faith ye stand. 
2Corinthians2:1 But I determined this in myself, that I would not come again to you in heaviness." 
2Corinthians2:2 For if I make you sorry: who is it that should make me glad, but the same which is made sorry by me?" 
2Corinthians2:3 And I wrote this same pistel unto you, lest if I came, I should take heaviness (upon heaviness) of them, of whom I ought to rejoice. Certainly this confidence have I in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all." 
2Corinthians2:4 For in great affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears: not to make you sorry, but that ye might perceive the love which I have most specially unto you." 
2Corinthians2:5 If any man hath caused sorrow, the same hath not made me sorry: but partly, lest I should grieve you all." 
2Corinthians2:6 It is sufficient unto the same man that he was rebuked of many. 
2Corinthians2:7 So that now contrariwise ye ought to forgive him and comfort him: lest that same (person) should be swallowed up with overmuch heaviness. 
2Corinthians2:8 Wherefore I exhort you, that love may have strength over him.(that ye shew love upon him)" 
2Corinthians2:9 For this cause verily did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye should be obedient in all things." 
2Corinthians2:10 To whom ye forgive any thing, I forgive also. And verily if I forgive any thing, to whom I forgave it for your sakes forgave I it, in the room of Christ," 
2Corinthians2:11 lest Satan should prevent us. For his thoughts are not unknown unto us. 
2Corinthians2:12 When I was come to Troada for Christ's(Christes) gospel's sake (and a great door was opened unto me of the Lord) 
2Corinthians2:13 I had no rest in my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but took my leave of them and went away into Macedonia." 
2Corinthians2:13 I had no rest in my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but took my leave of them and went away into Macedonia." 
2Corinthians2:14 Thanks be unto God which always giveth us the victory in Christ, and openeth the savor of his knowledge by us in every place." 
2Corinthians2:15 For we are unto God the sweet savor(good favour) of Christ, both among them that are saved, and also among them which perish:" 
2Corinthians2:16 to the one part are we the savor of death unto death: (.And) unto the other part are we the savor of life unto life. And who is meet unto these things? 
2Corinthians2:17 For we are not as many are which chop and change with the word of God: but as they which speak(but even out) of pureness, and as they which speak(by the power) of God (and) in the sight of God, so speak we in Christ." 
2Corinthians3:1 We begin to praise ourselves again. Need we as some other of pistels of recommendation(commendation) unto you? or letters of recommendation(commendation) from you? 
2Corinthians3:2 Ye are our pistel written in our hearts, which is understood and read of all men," 
2Corinthians3:3 in that ye are known, how that ye are the pistel of Christ, ministered by us and written, not with ink: but with the spirit of the living God, not in tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart." 
2Corinthians3:4 Such trust have we thorow Christ to Godward," 
2Corinthians3:5 not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as it were of ourselves: but our ableness cometh of God," 
2Corinthians3:6 which hath made us able to minister the new testament, not of the letter, but of the spirit: For the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life." 
2Corinthians3:7 If the ministration of death thorow the letters figured in stones was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not(might not) behold the face of Moses for the glory of(the clearness of his) countenance (which glory nevertheless is done away)" 
2Corinthians3:8 why(how) shall not the ministration of the spirit be much more glorious? 
2Corinthians3:9 For if the ministering of condemnation be glorious: much more doth the administration(ministration) of righteousness exceed in glory. 
2Corinthians3:10 For no doubt that which was there glorified is not once glorified in respect of this exceeding glory. 
2Corinthians3:11 Then if that which is destroyed was(done away, be) glorious, much more shall that which remaineth be glorious." 
2Corinthians3:12 Seeing then that we have such trust we use great boldness," 
2Corinthians3:13 and do not as Moses, which put a veil over his face that the children of Israel should not see for what purpose that served which is put away.(so that the children of Israel might not see the end of it, that is done away)" 
2Corinthians3:14 But their minds were blinded. For until this day remaineth the same covering untaken away in the old testament when they read it, which in Christ is put away:" 
2Corinthians3:15 But even unto this day, when Moses is read the veil hangeth before their hearts." 
2Corinthians3:16 Nevertheless when they turn to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away." 
2Corinthians3:17 The Lord no doubt is a spirit. And where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty." 
2Corinthians3:18 And now the Lord's glory appeareth in us all, as in a glass:(But we all behold the glory of the Lord with his face open) and we are(weare) changed unto the same similitude, from glory to glory,(same image, from one clearness to another) even of the Lord which is a spirit.(even of the spirit of the Lord.)" 
2Corinthians4:1 Therefore seeing that we have such an office, even as mercy is come on us, we faint not:" 
2Corinthians4:2 but have cast from us the cloaks of unhonesty, and walk not in craftiness, neither corrupt we the word of God: but walk in open truth, and report ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God." 
2Corinthians4:3 If our Gospell be yet hid, it is hid among them that are lost," 
2Corinthians4:4 in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest should shine unto them the light of the glorious gospel(gospell) of Christ,(Gospell of the glory of Christ) which is the image of God," 
2Corinthians4:5 for we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus (to be) the Lord, and preach ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake." 
2Corinthians4:6 For it is God that commanded the light to shine out of darkness, which hath shined in our hearts,(hath given a clear shine in our hearts) for to give the light of knowledge of the glorious God,(the light of the knowledge of the glory of God) in the face of Jesus Christ." 
2Corinthians4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellent power of it(that the power which excelleth) might appear to be of God, and not of us." 
2Corinthians4:8 We are troubled on every side, yet are we not without shift. We are in poverty: but not utterly without somewhat." 
2Corinthians4:9 We are persecuted: but are not forsaken. We are cast down:(oppressed) nevertheless we perish not. 
2Corinthians4:10 And we always bear in our bodies the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life of Jesu might appear in our bodies." 
2Corinthians4:11 For we which live, are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesu might appear in our mortal flesh." 
2Corinthians4:12 So then death worketh in us, and life in you." 
2Corinthians4:13 Seeing then that we have the same spirit of faith, according as it is written (I believed and therefore have I spoken) we also believe, and therefore speak." 
2Corinthians4:14 For we know that he which raised up the Lord Jesus, shall raise up us also by the means of Jesus, and shall set us with you," 
2Corinthians4:15 for all things I do for your sakes, that the plenteous grace by thanks given(thanksgiving) of many, may redound to the praise of God." 
2Corinthians4:16 Wherefore we are not wearied, but though our outward man perish,(be corrupt) yet the inward man is renewed day by day." 
2Corinthians4:17 For our exceeding tribulation, which is momentary(temporal) and light, prepareth(worketh) an exceeding, and eternal weight of glory unto us," 
2Corinthians4:18 while we look not on the things which are seen, but on the things which are not seen. For things which are seen, are temporal: but things which are not seen are eternal." 
2Corinthians5:1 We know surely if our earthy mansion wherein we now dwell(house of this dwelling) were destroyed, that we have a building ordained of God, an habitation not made with hands, but eternal in heaven:" 
2Corinthians5:2 And herefore sigh we, desiring to be clothed with our mansion which is from heaven:" 
2Corinthians5:3 (so yet) if it happen that we be found clothed, and not naked." 
2Corinthians5:4 For as long as we are in this tabernacle, we sigh and are grieved: for we would(had rather) not be unclothed: but would be clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life." 
2Corinthians5:5 He that hath ordained us for this thing, is God: which very same hath given unto us the earnest of the spirit." 
2Corinthians5:6 (Therefore) We are alway of good cheer, and know well that as long as we are at home(dwell here) in the body we are absent from God.(not at home with the LORDE)" 
2Corinthians5:7 For we walk in faith and see not.(see him not) 
2Corinthians5:8 Nevertheless we are of good comfort, and had lever to be absent from the body and to be present(at home) with God.(the Lord.)" 
2Corinthians5:9 Wherefore we endeavor ourselves, whether we be at home or from home, to please God.(Wherefore, whether we be at home or from home we endeavor our selves to please him.)" 
2Corinthians5:10 For we must all be brought(appear) before the judgement seat of Christ that every man(one) may receive the works of his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad?" 
2Corinthians5:11 Seeing then that we know how the Lord is to be feared, we fare fair with men. For we are known well enough unto God. I trust also that we are known in your consciences." 
2Corinthians5:12 We praise not ourselves again unto you, but give you an occasion to rejoice of us, that ye may have somewhat against them, which rejoice in the face,(after the outward appearance) and not in(after) the heart." 
2Corinthians5:13 For if we be too fervent, to God are we to(too) fervent: if we keep measure, for your cause(sakes) keep we measure." 
2Corinthians5:14 For the love of Christ constraineth us, because(inasmuch as) we thus judge, if one be dead for all, that then are all dead," 
2Corinthians5:15 and that he died for all, because that they which live, should not henceforth live unto themselves: but unto him which died for them and rose again." 
2Corinthians5:16 Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh. Insomuch that though we have known Christ after the flesh, now henceforth know we him so no more." 
2Corinthians5:17 Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold all things are become new." 
2Corinthians5:18 Nevertheless all things are of God, which hath reconciled us unto himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given unto us the office to preach the atonement." 
2Corinthians5:19 For God was in Christ, and made agreement between the world and him self, and imputed not their sins unto them: and hath committed to us the preaching of the atonement.(and reconciled the world unto himslef, and counted not their sins unto them, and among us hath he set up the word of the atonement)" 
2Corinthians5:20 Now then are we messengers in the room of Christ: even as though God did beseech you thorow us:(exhorted by us) So pray we you(We beseek you now therefore) in Christ's(Christes) stead, that ye be at one with God:" 
2Corinthians5:21 for he hath made him to be sin for us, which knew no sin, that we by his means should be that righteousness which before God is allowed.(aloved)" 
2Corinthians6:1 We as helpers therefore exhort you, that ye receive not the grace of God in vain." 
2Corinthians6:2 For he saith: I have heard thee in a time accepted: and in the day of health,(salvation) have I succoured thee. Behold now is that well accepted time: behold now is the day of health.(salvation.)" 
2Corinthians6:3 Let us give no man occasion of evil, that in our office be found no fault:(no evil spoken of)" 
2Corinthians6:4 but in all things let us behave ourselves as the ministers of God. In much patience, in afflictions, in necessity, in anguish," 
2Corinthians6:5 in stripes, in prisonment, in strife,(in uproars) in labour, in watch,(watching) in fasting," 
2Corinthians6:6 in pureness, in knowledge, in longsuffering, in kindness, in the holy ghost, in love unfeigned," 
2Corinthians6:7 in the words of truth, in the power of God, by the armour of righteousness of the right hand and on the left hand," 
2Corinthians6:8 in honour and dishonour, in evil report and good report, as deceivers and yet true," 
2Corinthians6:9 as unknown, and yet known: as dying and behold we yet live: as chastened and not killed:" 
2Corinthians6:10 as sorrowing and yet alway merry: as poor and yet make many rich: as having no thing and yet possessing all things. 
2Corinthians6:11 O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you. Our heart is made large:" 
2Corinthians6:12 ye are not brought into cumbrance by us, though that ye vex yourselves of a true meaning.(ye are in no strayte in us, but are in a strayte in your awne bowelles:)(Ye are in no straitness on our behalf: but where as ye are in straitness, that do ye of your own heartely meaning)" 
2Corinthians6:13 I speak unto you as unto children, which(that) have like reward with us:(I promise you like reward with me, as to my children.)" 
2Corinthians6:14 Stretch yourselves therefore out; bear not the yoke with the unbelievers.(Set your selves therefore at large, and bear not a strangers yoke with the unbelievers) For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What company hath light with darkness?" 
2Corinthians6:15 What concord hath(How agreeth) Christ with beliall? Either(Or) what part hath he that believeth(the believer) with an infidel? 
2Corinthians6:16 how agreeth(accordeth) the temple of God with images? And ye are the temple of the living God, as said God: I will dwell among them, and walk among them, and will be their God: and they shall be my people." 
2Corinthians6:17 Wherefore come out from among them, and separate yourselves (saith the Lord) and touch none unclean thing: so will I receive you," 
2Corinthians6:18 and will be a father unto you, and ye shall be unto me sons and daughters, saith the Lord almighty." 
2Corinthians7:1 Seeing that we have such promises dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, and grow up to full holiness in the fear of God." 
2Corinthians7:2 Understand us:(Understand us right) we have hurt no man: we have corrupted no man: we have defrauded no man. 
2Corinthians7:3 I speak not this to condemn you: for I have shewed you before that ye are in our hearts to die and live with you. 
2Corinthians7:4 I am very bold over(toward) you, and rejoice greatly in you.(make much boast of you) I am filled with comfort, my joy exceeding(and am joyous) in all our tribulations." 
2Corinthians7:5 For when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on every side: Outward was fighting, inward was fear." 
2Corinthians7:6 Nevertheless he(God) that comforteth the abject, comforted us at the coming of Titus." 
2Corinthians7:6 Nevertheless he(God) that comforteth the abject, comforted us at the coming of Titus." 
2Corinthians7:7 And not with his coming only: but also with the consolation wherewith he was comforted of you. For he told us your desire, your mourning,(weeping) your fervent mind to me ward: So that I now rejoice the more." 
2Corinthians7:8 Wherefore though I made you sorry with a letter I repent not: though I did repent. For I perceive that that same Epistle made you sorry though it were but for a season. 
2Corinthians7:9 But I now rejoice, not that ye were sorry, but that ye so sorrowed, that ye repented." 
2Corinthians7:10 For ye sorrowed godly: so that in nothing were ye hurt by us. For godly sorrow causeth repentance unto health,(salvation) not to be repented of: when worldly sorrow causeth death." 
2Corinthians7:11 Behold what diligence this godly sorrow that ye took hath wrought in you: yea it caused you to clear yourselves. It caused indignation,(Yee a sufficient answer, displeasure) it caused fear, it caused desire, it caused a fervent mind, it caused punishment. For in all things ye have shewed yourselves that ye were clear in that business.(matter.)" 
2Corinthians7:12 Wherefore though I have written(wrote) unto you, I did it not for his cause that did hurt, neither for his cause that was hurt: but that our good mind which we have toward you(your diligence which ye have for us) in the sight of God, might appear unto you.(might be manifest with you)" 
2Corinthians7:13 Therefore we are comforted, because ye are comforted: yea and exceedingly the more joyed we, for the joy that Titus had: because his spirit was refreshed of you all." 
2Corinthians7:13 Therefore we are comforted, because ye are comforted: yea and exceedingly the more joyed we, for the joy that Titus had: because his spirit was refreshed of you all." 
2Corinthians7:14 I am therefore not now ashamed, though I boasted myself to him of you. For as all things which I preached unto you are true, even so is our boasting, that I boasted myself to Titus withal, found true." 
2Corinthians7:14 I am therefore not now ashamed, though I boasted myself to him of you. For as all things which I preached unto you are true, even so is our boasting, that I boasted myself to Titus withal, found true." 
2Corinthians7:15 And now is his inward affection more abundant toward you, when he remembereth the obedience of every one of you: how with fear and trembling ye received him." 
2Corinthians7:16 I rejoice that I may be bold over you in all things. 
2Corinthians8:1 I do you to wit brethren of the grace of God, which is given in the congregations of Macedonia," 
2Corinthians8:2 how that the abundance of their rejoicing is, that they are tried with much tribulation. And how that their poverty, though it be deep, yet hath followed over, and is be come unto them riches in singleness.(And thereto though they were exceeding poor, yet have they given exceeding richly, and that in singleness.)" 
2Corinthians8:3 For to their powers (I bear them record) yea and beyond their power, they were willing of their own accord," 
2Corinthians8:4 and prayed us with great instance, that we would receive their benefit, and suffer them to be partakers with other(others) in ministering to the saints.(and fellowship of the handdreaching that is done for the saints)" 
2Corinthians8:5 And this they did, not as we looked for: but gave their own selves first to the Lord, and after unto us by the will of God:" 
2Corinthians8:6 so that we could not but desire Titus to accomplish the same benevolence among you also, even as he had begun." 
2Corinthians8:6 so that we could not but desire Titus to accomplish the same benevolence among you also, even as he had begun." 
2Corinthians8:7 Now therefore, as ye are rich in all parts, in faith, in word, in knowledge, in all ferventness,(diligence) and in love, which ye have to us: even so see that ye be plenteous in this benevolence." 
2Corinthians8:8 This say I not as commanding: but because other(others) are so fervent,(diligent) therefore prove I your love, whether it be perfect or no." 
2Corinthians8:9 Ye know the liberality of our Lord Jesus Christ, which though he were rich, yet for your sakes became poor: that ye thorow his poverty might be made rich." 
2Corinthians8:10 And I give counsel hereto: For this is expedient(profitable) for you, which began, not to do only: but also to will, a year ago." 
2Corinthians8:11 Now therefore perform the deed, that as there was in you a readiness(ready mind) to will, even so ye may perform the deed, of that which ye have." 
2Corinthians8:12 For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not." 
2Corinthians8:13 It is not my mind(not done to the intent) that other be set at ease, and ye brought into cumbrance: but that there be egalness.(but that it be a like) (now at this time,)" 
2Corinthians8:14 Let(that) your abundance succour their lack at this present time of dearth: that their abundance may supply your lack: that there may be equality," 
2Corinthians8:15 agreeing to that which is written: He that gathered much had never the more abundance, and he that gathered little, had nevertheless.(He that gathered much, had not the more: and he that gathered little, wanted nothing)" 
2Corinthians8:16 Thanks be unto God, which put in the heart of Titus the same good mind(diligence) toward you." 
2Corinthians8:16 Thanks be unto God, which put in the heart of Titus the same good mind(diligence) toward you." 
2Corinthians8:17 For he accepted our(the) request. Yea rather he was(in deed, yea he was rather) so well willing, that of his own accord came unto you." 
2Corinthians8:18 We have sent with him that brother whose laud(praise) is in the gospel(gospell) thorowout all the congregations: 
2Corinthians8:19 and not so only, but is also chosen of the congregations to be a fellow with us in our journey, as concerning this benevolence that is ministered by us unto the praise of the Lord, and to stir up your prompt mind." 
2Corinthians8:20 And(For) this we eschew that any man should rebuke us in this abundance,(and to beware, lest any man report evil of us because of this plenteousness)(plenteous distribution) that is ministered by us, (to the glory of the lorde)" 
2Corinthians8:21 and(therefore) make provision for honest things, not in the sight of God only,(not onely before the LORDE) but also in the sight of men.(also before men)" 
2Corinthians8:22 We have sent with them a brother of ours whom we have oft times proved diligent in many things, but now much more diligent. The great confidence which I have in you(And this have we done in great hope toward you)" 
2Corinthians8:23 hath caused me this to do: partly(whether it be) for Titus' sake which is my fellow, and helper as concerning you: partly because of other(others) which are our brethren, and the messengers(which are Apostles) of the congregations, and the glory(praise) of Christ." 
2Corinthians8:23 hath caused me this to do: partly(whether it be) for Titus' sake which is my fellow, and helper as concerning you: partly because of other(others) which are our brethren, and the messengers(which are Apostles) of the congregations, and the glory(praise) of Christ." 
2Corinthians8:24 Wherefore shew unto them the proof of your love, and of the rejoicing that we have(and of your boasting) of you, that the congregations may see it.(sight of the congregations)" 
2Corinthians9:1 Of the ministering to(handreaching unto) the saints, it is but superfluous(no need) for me to write unto you:" 
2Corinthians9:2 for I know your readiness of mind, whereof I boast myself unto(among) them of Macedonia, and say that Achaia was prepared(ready) a year ago, and your ferventness hath provoked many." 
2Corinthians9:3 Nevertheless yet have I sent these brethren, lest our rejoicing over you should be in vain in this behalf, and that ye (as I have said) prepare yourselves,(that ye might be ready, as I have reported)" 
2Corinthians9:4 lest peradventure if(when) they of Macedonia come with me and find you unprepared, the boast that I made in this matter should be a shame to us: I say not unto you.(I will not say ye should be ashamed in this presumption of boasting)" 
2Corinthians9:5 Wherefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, to come before hand unto you, for to prepare your good blessing promised afore, that it might be ready: so that it be a blessing, and not a defrauding." 
2Corinthians9:6 This yet remember, how that he which soweth little, shall reap little: and he that soweth plenteously shall reap plenteously." 
2Corinthians9:7 And let every man do according as he hath purposed in his heart, not grudgingly, or of necessity.(compulsion) For God loveth a cheerful giver." 
2Corinthians9:8 God is able to make you rich in all grace, that ye in all things having sufficient unto the utmost, may be rich unto all manner good works," 
2Corinthians9:9 as it is written: He that sparsed abroad and hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth for ever." 
2Corinthians9:10 He that findeth the sower seed, shall minister bread for food, and shall multiply your seed, and increase the fruits of your righteousness that on all parts," 
2Corinthians9:11 ye may be made rich in all singleness, which causeth thorow us, thanks giving unto God." 
2Corinthians9:12 For the office of this ministration,(handreaching of this collection) not only supplieth the need of the saints: but also is abundant herein, that for this laudable ministering, thanks might be given to God of many,(ministration, many might give thanks unto God)" 
2Corinthians9:13 which praise God for the obedience in knowledging(of your professing) the gospel(gospell) of Christ, and for your singleness, in distributing to them, and to all men." 
2Corinthians9:14 And in their prayers to God for you, long after you, for the abundant grace of God given unto you." 
2Corinthians9:15 Thanks be unto God for his ineffable(unspeakable) gift. 
2Corinthians10:1 I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and softness of Christ, which when I am present among you, am of no reputation, but am bold toward you being absent." 
2Corinthians10:2 I beseech you that I need not to be bold when I am present (with that same confidence,(to use that boldness) wherewith I am supposed to be bold) against some which repute us as though we walked carnally.(after the flesh)" 
2Corinthians10:3 Nevertheless though we walk compassed with the flesh, yet we war not fleshly.(fight we not after a fleshly manner)" 
2Corinthians10:4 For the weapons of our war are not carnal things,(fleshly) but things mighty in God to cast down strongholds," 
2Corinthians10:5 wherewith we overthrow imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bring into captivity all understanding to the obedience of Christ," 
2Corinthians10:6 and are ready to take vengeance on all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled." 
2Corinthians10:7 Look ye on things after the utter appearance. If any man trust in himself that he is Christ's,(Christis) let the same also consider of himself, that as he is Christ's,(Christis) even so are we Christ's.(Christes.)" 
2Corinthians10:8 And though I should boast myself somewhat more of our authority which the Lord hath given us to edify and not to destroy you, it should not be to my shame." 
2Corinthians10:9 This say I, lest I should seem as though I went about to make you afraid with letters." 
2Corinthians10:10 For the pistels (saith he) are sore and strong: but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech homely.(rude.)" 
2Corinthians10:11 Let him that is such think on this wise, that as we are in words by letters when we are absent, such are we in deeds when we are present." 
2Corinthians10:12 For we cannot find in our hearts to make ourselves of the number of them, or to compare ourselves to them, which laud themselves:(For we dare not reckon or compare our selves, unto some that praise them selves) but(nevertheless) while they measure themselves with themselves, and compare themselves with themselves, they understand nought.(nothing)" 
2Corinthians10:13 But we will not rejoice(not boast ourselves) above measure: but according to the quantity of the measure which(measure of the rule wherewith) God hath distributed unto us, a measure that reacheth even unto you." 
2Corinthians10:14 For we stretch not out ourselves beyond measure as though we had not reached unto you. For even unto you have we come with the gospel(gospell) of Christ," 
2Corinthians10:15 and we boast not ourselves out of measure in other men's labors: yea and we hope; When your faith is increased among you, to be magnified according to our measure more largely:" 
2Corinthians10:16 And to preach the gospel(gospell) in those regions which are beyond you: and not to rejoice of that which is by another man's measure prepared all ready.(already.) 
2Corinthians10:17 Let him that rejoiceth, rejoice in the Lord." 
2Corinthians10:18 For he that praiseth himself, is not allowed: but he whom the Lord praiseth." 
2Corinthians11:1 Would to God, ye could suffer me a little in my foolishness: yea, and I pray you forbear me." 
2Corinthians11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy. For I coupled(have married) you to one man, to make you(to bring) a chaste virgin to Christ:" 
2Corinthians11:3 But I fear lest as the serpent beguiled Eve, thorow(with) his subtlety, even so your wits should be corrupt from the singleness that is in Christ." 
2Corinthians11:4 For if he that cometh to you preach another Jesus than him whom we preached: or if ye receive another spirit than that which ye have received: either another gospel(gospell) than that ye have received,(accepted) ye might right well have been content." 
2Corinthians11:5 I suppose that I was not behind the chief apostles.(am no less than the hye Apostles are) 
2Corinthians11:6 Though I be rude in speaking, yet I am not so in knowledge. How be it among you we are known to the utmost what we are in all things." 
2Corinthians11:7 Did I therein sin, because I submitted myself, that ye might be exalted? and because I preached the gospel to you free?(preached unto you the Gospell of God freely)" 
2Corinthians11:8 I robbed other congregations, and took wages of them, to do you service withal." 
2Corinthians11:9 And when I was present with you and had need, I was grievous to no man. For that which was lacking unto me, the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied: and in all things I kept myself that I should not be grievous to you: and so will I keep myself." 
2Corinthians11:10 If the truth of Christ be in me, this rejoicing shall not be taken from me in the regions of Achaia." 
2Corinthians11:11 Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth. 
2Corinthians11:12 Nevertheless what I do, that will I do to cut away occasion from them which desire occasion, that they might be found like unto us in that wherein they rejoice:(might boast themselves to be like unto us)" 
2Corinthians11:13 For these false apostles are deceitful workers, and fashion them selves like unto the apostles of Christ." 
2Corinthians11:14 And no marvel, for Satan himself is changed into the fashion of an angel of light." 
2Corinthians11:15 Therefore it is no great thing, though his ministers fashion themselves as though they were the ministers(preachers) of righteousness: whose end shall be according to their deeds." 
2Corinthians11:16 I say again lest any man think that I am foolish: or else even now take me as a fool, that I may boast myself a little." 
2Corinthians11:17 That I speak, I speak it not after the ways of the Lord: but as it were foolishly, while we are now come to boasting." 
2Corinthians11:18 Seeing that many rejoice(boast) after the flesh I will rejoice(boast) also. 
2Corinthians11:19 For ye suffer fools gladly because that ye yourselves are wise. 
2Corinthians11:20 For ye suffer even if a man bring you into bondage: if a man devour:(put you to dishonesty) if a man take: if a man exalt himself: if a man smite you on the face. 
2Corinthians11:21 I speak as concerning rebuke, as though we had been weak. (in this behalf) (Howbeit) Whereinsoever any man dare be bold (I speak foolishly) I dare be bold also." 
2Corinthians11:22 They are Hebrews, so am I: They are Israelites, even so am I: They are the seed of Abraham, even so am I." 
2Corinthians11:22 They are Hebrews, so am I: They are Israelites, even so am I: They are the seed of Abraham, even so am I." 
2Corinthians11:23 They are the ministers of Christ (I speak as a fool) I am more: In labors more abundant: In stripes above measure: In prison more plenteously: 
2Corinthians11:24 In death often. Of the jews five times received I every time forty stripes, one except.(save one.)" 
2Corinthians11:25 Thrice was I beaten with rods. I was once stoned. I suffered thrice shipwreck. Night and day have I been in the deep of the sea. 
2Corinthians11:26 In journeying often: In perils of waters In perils of robbers.(perils among murthurers) In jeopardies of mine own nation:(In perils among the Jews) In jeopardies among the heathen. I have been in perils in cities, in perils in wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren," 
2Corinthians11:27 in labour and travail, in watching often, in hunger, in thirst, in fastings often, in cold and in nakedness." 
2Corinthians11:28 (And) Beside the things which outwardly happen unto me, I am cumbered daily and do care for all congregations." 
2Corinthians11:29 Who is sick: and I am not sick?(weak) Who is hurt in the faith: and my heart burneth not?(Who is offended, and I burn not)" 
2Corinthians11:30 If I must needs rejoice,(make my boast) I will rejoice(boast myself) of mine infirmities." 
2Corinthians11:31 God the father(The God and father) of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed for evermore, knoweth that I lie not." 
2Corinthians11:32 In the city of Damaschon, the governor of the people under king Aretas, laid watch in the city of the Damascens, and would have caught(taken) me," 
2Corinthians11:33 and at a window was I let down in a basket thorow the wall, and so escaped his hands." 
2Corinthians12:1 It is not expedient for me(It profiteth me nothing) no doubt to rejoice;(boast) Nevertheless I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
2Corinthians12:2 I know a man in Christ above fourteen years agone (whether he were in the body I cannot tell, or whether he were out of the body I cannot tell; God knoweth) which(the same) was taken up into the third heaven." 
2Corinthians12:3 And I know the same man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell; God knoweth)" 
2Corinthians12:4 how that he was taken up into paradise, and heard words not to be spoken, which no man can utter." 
2Corinthians12:5 Of this man will I rejoice, of myself will I not rejoice,(Hereof will I boast, but of myself will I make no boast) except it be of mine infirmities:" 
2Corinthians12:6 and yet though I would rejoice I should not be a fool:(would boast myself, I did not foolishly) for I would say the truth. Nevertheless I spare,(But I refrain my self) lest any man should think of me above that he seeth me to be, or heareth of me." 
2Corinthians12:7 And lest I should be exalted out of measure thorow the abundance of revelations, there was given unto me of God unquietness of the flesh,(there is a warning given unto my flesh, even) the messenger of Satan to buffet me: because I should not be exalted(not exault my self) out of measure." 
2Corinthians12:8 For this thing besought I the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me:" 
2Corinthians12:9 and he said unto me: my grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength is made perfect thorow(throu) weakness. Very gladly therefore will I rejoice of my weakness, that the strength of Christ may dwell in me." 
2Corinthians12:10 Therefore have I delectation(am I content) in infirmities, in rebukes, in need,(necessities) in persecutions, in anguish, for Christ's(Christis) sake. For when I am weak, then am I strong." 
2Corinthians12:11 I am made a fool in boasting myself. Ye have compelled me: I ought to have been commended of you. For in nothing was I inferior unto the chief apostles, though I be nothing," 
2Corinthians12:12 yet the tokens of an apostle were wrought among you with all patience: with signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds." 
2Corinthians12:13 For what is it wherein ye were inferiors unto other congregations? except it be therein that I was not grievous unto you. Forgive me this wrong done unto you. 
2Corinthians12:14 Behold now the third time I am ready to come unto you, neither will I(and yet will I not) be grievous(chargeable) unto you. For I seek not yours but you. Also the children ought not to lay up(gather treasure) for the fathers and mothers: but the fathers and mothers for the children." 
2Corinthians12:15 I will very gladly bestow, and will be bestowed for your souls: though the more I love you, the less I am loved again." 
2Corinthians12:16 But be it that I grieved you not: nevertheless I was crafty and took you with guile. 
2Corinthians12:17 Did I pill(Have I defrauded) you by any of them which I sent unto you? 
2Corinthians12:18 I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother: Did Titus defraud you of any thing? walked we not in one spirit? walked we not in like steps?" 
2Corinthians12:18 I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother: Did Titus defraud you of any thing? walked we not in one spirit? walked we not in like steps?" 
2Corinthians12:19 Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves? we speak in Christ in the sight of God. But we do all things dearly beloved for your edifying." 
2Corinthians12:20 For I fear lest it come to pass, that when I come, I shall not find you such as I would: and I shall be found unto you such as ye(I) would not: I fear lest there be found among you lawing,(debate) envying, wrath, strife, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, and debate.(discord.)(uproars)" 
2Corinthians12:21 I fear lest when I come again, God bring me low among you, and I be constrained to bewail many of them which have sinned already, and have not repented of the uncleanness, and fornication,(whoredom) and wantonness which they have committed." 
2Corinthians13:1 Now come I the third time unto you: in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word(everything) stand.(every matter be stablished) 
2Corinthians13:2 I told you before, and tell you before, (and) as I said when I was present with you the second time, so write I now being absent to them which in time past have sinned, and to all other: (that) If I come again, I will not spare" 
2Corinthians13:3 seeing that ye seek experience of Christ which speaketh in me, which among you is not weak, but is mighty in you." 
2Corinthians13:4 And verily though it came of weakness that he was crucified, yet liveth he thorow the power of God: and we no doubt are weak in him: but we shall live with him, by the might(power) that God gave us to you ward.(by the might of God among you.)" 
2Corinthians13:5 Prove yourselves whether ye are in the faith or not. Examine your own selves: know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you? except ye be castaways." 
2Corinthians13:6 I trust that ye shall know that we are not castaways. 
2Corinthians13:7 I desire before God that ye do none evil, not that we should seem commendable: but that ye should do, that which is honest:(good) and let us be counted as lewd persons.(cast aways)" 
2Corinthians13:8 We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth." 
2Corinthians13:9 We are glad when we are weak, and ye strong. This also we wish for, even that ye were perfect.(namely your perfectness)" 
2Corinthians13:10 Therefore write I these things being absent, lest when I am present I should use sharpness according to the power which the Lord hath given me, to edify, and not to destroy." 
2Corinthians13:11 Furthermore(Finally) brethren fare ye well,(rejoice) be perfect, be of good comfort,(comfort your selves) be of one mind, live in peace,(be peaceable) and the God of love and peace, shall be with you." 
2Corinthians13:12 Greet(Salute) one another in an holy kiss. 
2Corinthians13:13 All the saints salute you. 
2Corinthians13:14 The favour(grace) of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the holy ghost, be with you all Amen. [The end of the second pistel to the Corinthians. Sent from Philippos a city in Macedonia by Titus and Lucas.]" 
2Corinthians13:14 The favour(grace) of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the holy ghost, be with you all Amen. [The end of the second pistel to the Corinthians. Sent from Philippos a city in Macedonia by Titus and Lucas.]" 
Galatians1:1 Paul an apostle, not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and by God the father which raised him from death,(which raised him up from the dead)" 
Galatians1:2 and all the brethren which are with me. Unto the congregations of Galacia. 
Galatians1:3 Grace be with you and peace from God the father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Galatians1:4 which gave himself for our sins, to deliver(that he might deliver) us from this present evil world, thorow(according to) the will of God our father," 
Galatians1:5 to whom be praise for ever and ever Amen. 
Galatians1:6 I marvel that ye are so soon turned from him that called you in the grace of Christ, unto another gospel,(gospell:)" 
Galatians1:7 which is nothing else, but that there be some which trouble you, and intend to pervert the gospel(gospell) of Christ." 
Galatians1:8 Nevertheless though we ourselves, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel(gospell) unto you than that which we have preached unto you, hold him as accursed.(the same be accursed)" 
Galatians1:9 As I said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other thing unto you, than that ye have received, hold him accursed.(the same be accursed)" 
Galatians1:10 Seek I now the favour of men, or of God?(Preache I mannes doctrine or Godes?) Other go I about to please men? If I studied to please men, I were not the servant of Christ." 
Galatians1:11 I certify you brethren, that the gospel(gospell) which was preached of me, was not after the manner of men," 
Galatians1:12 neither received I it of man, neither was I taught it: but received it by the revelation of Jesus Christ." 
Galatians1:13 (For) Ye have heard of my conversation in times past in the jews' ways, how that beyond measure I persecuted the congregation of God, and spoiled it:" 
Galatians1:14 and prevailed in the jews' law,(laye) above many of my companions, which were of mine own nation, and was a much more fervently maintained(fervent maintainer of) the traditions of the elders.(fathers)" 
Galatians1:15 But when it pleased God, which separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace," 
Galatians1:16 for to declare his son by me, that I should preach him among the heathen: Immediately I commended not of the matter with flesh and blood," 
Galatians1:17 neither returned to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me: but went my ways into Arabia, and came again unto Damasco." 
Galatians1:18 Then after three year, I returned to Jerusalem unto(to see) Peter and abode with him fifteen days," 
Galatians1:19 no other of the apostles saw I, save James the Lord's brother." 
Galatians1:19 no other of the apostles saw I, save James the Lord's brother." 
Galatians1:20 The things which I write, behold, God knoweth I lie not." 
Galatians1:21 After that I went into the coasts of Siria and Cicill:(Cilicia:) 
Galatians1:22 and was unknown as touching my person unto the congregations of Jewry, which were in Christ.(but of face I was unknown to the Cristen congregations in Jewry)" 
Galatians1:23 But they heard only, that he which persecuted us in time past, now preacheth the faith, which before he destroyed." 
Galatians1:24 And they glorified(praised) God in me.(on my behalf.) 
Galatians2:1 Then fourteen years there after, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took with me Titus also." 
Galatians2:1 Then fourteen years there after, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took with me Titus also." 
Galatians2:2 Yea, and I went up by revelation, and commended with them of the gospel,(Gospell) which I preach among the gentiles: but apart(between our selves) with them that are(which were) counted chief,(in reputation) lest it should have been thought that I should run, or had run in vain." 
Galatians2:3 Also Titus which was with me, though he were a greek, yet was not compelled to be circumcised," 
Galatians2:3 Also Titus which was with me, though he were a greek, yet was not compelled to be circumcised," 
Galatians2:4 and that because of incomers being false brethren, which came in among others to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage." 
Galatians2:5 To whom we gave no room, no not for the space of an hour, as concerning to be brought into subjection: and that because that the truth of the gospel(gospell) might continue with you." 
Galatians2:6 Of them which seemed to be great (what they were in time passed it maketh no matter to me: God looketh on no man's person)(For God looketh not on the outward appearance of men) nevertheless they which seem(seemed) great, added nothing to me:(taught me nothing)" 
Galatians2:7 But contrariwise, when they saw that the gospel(gospell) over the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as the gospel(gospell) over circumcision was unto Peter" 
Galatians2:8 (For he that was mighty in Peter in the apostleship over the circumcision, the same was mighty in me among the gentiles:)" 
Galatians2:9 and as soon as(therefore when) James, Cephas, and John, which seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas their(the right) hands, and agreed with us that we should preach among the heathen, and they among the jews:" 
Galatians2:9 and as soon as(therefore when) James, Cephas, and John, which seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas their(the right) hands, and agreed with us that we should preach among the heathen, and they among the jews:" 
Galatians2:9 and as soon as(therefore when) James, Cephas, and John, which seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas their(the right) hands, and agreed with us that we should preach among the heathen, and they among the jews:" 
Galatians2:10 warning only that we should remember the poor, which thing also I was diligent to do." 
Galatians2:11 (And) When Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him in the face, for he was worthy to be blamed." 
Galatians2:12 For yer that certain came(afore there came certain) from James, he ate with the gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision," 
Galatians2:12 For yer that certain came(afore there came certain) from James, he ate with the gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision," 
Galatians2:13 and the other jews dissembled likewise; Insomuch that Barnabas was brought into their simulation also. 
Galatians2:14 But when I saw that they went(walked) not the right way after the truth of the gospel,(gospell) I said unto Peter, before all men,(openly before all:) if thou being a jew, livest after the manner of the gentiles, and not as do the jews: why causest thou the gentiles to follow(live as do) the jews?" 
Galatians2:15 we which are jews by nature and not sinners of the gentiles," 
Galatians2:16 know that a man is not justified(made righteous) by the deeds of the law: but by the faith of Jesus Christ: and(therefore) we have believed on Jesus Christ, that we might be justified(made righteous) by the faith of Christ and not by the deeds of the law: because that no flesh shall be justified by the deeds of the law:" 
Galatians2:17 If then while we seek to be made righteous by Christ, we ourselves are found sinners, is not then Christ the minister of sin? God forbid." 
Galatians2:18 For if I build again that which I destroyed, then make I my self a trespasser." 
Galatians2:19 But I thorow the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God." 
Galatians2:20 I am crucified with Christ. I live verily, yet now not I, but Christ liveth in me. (For) The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the son of God, which loved me, and gave himself for me." 
Galatians2:21 I despise not(cast not away) the grace of God: For if righteousness come of the law, then is Christ dead(died) in vain." 
Galatians3:1 O foolish Galatians: who hath bewitched you, that ye should not believe the truth? to whom Jesus Christ was described before the eyes, and among you crucified?" 
Galatians3:2 This only would I learn of you, received ye the spirit by the deeds of the law? or else by preaching of the faith?" 
Galatians3:3 Are ye so unwise, that after ye have begun in the spirit, ye would now end in the flesh?" 
Galatians3:4 So many things (there) ye have suffered in vain. If it be so that ye have suffered in vain.(,if that be in vain.)" 
Galatians3:5 Which ministered to(He that giveth) you the spirit, and worketh miracles(doth such great acts) among you doth he it thorow the deeds of the law? or by preaching of the faith?" 
Galatians3:6 Even as Abraham believed God, and it was ascribed to him for righteousness." 
Galatians3:7 Understand therefore,(Thus ye know) that they which are of faith, (the same) are the children of Abraham." 
Galatians3:8 (For) The scripture saw aforehand, that God would justify the heathen thorow faith, and (therefore) shewed beforehand glad tidings unto Abraham: In thee shall all nations be blessed." 
Galatians3:9 So then they which be of faith, are blessed with faithful Abraham." 
Galatians3:10 For as many as are under the deeds(as go about with the works) of the law, are under malediction.(curse) For it is written: cursed is every man that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to fulfil(do) them." 
Galatians3:11 That no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident. For the just shall live by faith. 
Galatians3:12 The law is not of faith: but the man that fulfilleth the things contained in the law, shall live in them.(but the man that doth the same, shall live therein)" 
Galatians3:13 (But) Christ hath delivered us from the curse of the law, and was made a cursed for us (for it is written: Cursed is everyone that hangeth on tree)" 
Galatians3:14 that the blessing of Abraham might come on the gentiles thorow Jesus Christ, (and) that we might receive the promise of the spirit thorow faith." 
Galatians3:15 Brethren I will speak after the manner of men. Though it be but a man's testament, yet no man despiseth it, or addeth any thing thereto when it is once allowed.(confrimed)" 
Galatians3:16 To Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith(seyth) not, in thy(the) seeds as in many: But in thy seed, as in one, which is Christ." 
Galatians3:17 This I say that the law which began afterward, beyond four hundred and thirty years, doth not disannul the testament, that was confirmed (afore) of God unto Christ ward, to make the promise of none effect." 
Galatians3:18 For if the inheritance come of the law, it cometh not of promise: but God gave it unto Abraham by promise." 
Galatians3:19 Wherefore then serveth the law? The law was added because of transgression (till the seed came to which the promise was made) and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.(given of angels, by the hand of the mediatour)" 
Galatians3:20 A mediator is not a mediator of one.(of one only) But God is one. 
Galatians3:21 Is the law then against the promise of God? God forbid. (Howbeit) If there had been a law given which could have given life: then no doubt righteousness should have come by the law: 
Galatians3:22 but the scripture concluded all things under sin, that the promise by the faith of Jesus Christ, should be given unto them that believe." 
Galatians3:23 Before that faith came, we were kept and shut up under the law, unto the faith which should afterward be declared." 
Galatians3:24 Wherefore(Thus) the law was our schoolmaster unto the time of Christ, that we might be made righteous by faith." 
Galatians3:25 But after that faith is come, now are we no longer under a schoolmaster.(no more under the schoolmaster)" 
Galatians3:26 For ye are all the sons(children) of God, by the faith which is in Christ Jesus." 
Galatians3:27 For all ye that(For as many of you as) are baptised, have put Christ on you.(put on Christ.)" 
Galatians3:28 Now is there no jew, neither greek:(is ther no Iewe nether gentile:) there is neither(nether) bond, neither(ner) free: there is neither man, neither(ner) woman: for all are one thing in Christ Jesu.(but ye are all one thing in Christ Iesu)" 
Galatians3:29 If ye be Christ's,(Christes) then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs by promise.(according to the promise)" 
Galatians4:1 And I say that the heir as long as he is a child differeth not from a servant, though he be lord of all,(all the goods)" 
Galatians4:2 but is under tutors and governors, until the time appointed of the father." 
Galatians4:3 Even so we, as long as we were children, were in bondage under the ordinances of the world:(under the outward traditions)" 
Galatians4:4 But when the time was full come,(fulfilled) God sent his son born of a woman, and made bond unto(put under) the law," 
Galatians4:5 to redeem them which were under the law: that we thorow election should(might) receive the inheritance that belongeth unto the natural sons. 
Galatians4:6 Because ye are sons,(children) God hath sent the spirit of his son into our hearts, which crieth Abba father.(dear father)" 
Galatians4:7 Wherefore now art thou not a servant, but a son. If thou be the son, thou art also the heir of God thorow Christ." 
Galatians4:8 Notwithstanding, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them, which by nature were not(no) goddes:" 
Galatians4:9 But now seeing ye know God (yea rather are known of God) how is it that ye turn again unto the weak and beggarly ceremonies,(traditions) whereunto again ye desire afresh to be in bondage?" 
Galatians4:10 Ye observe the days, and months, and times, and years." 
Galatians4:11 I (am in) fear of you, lest I have bestowed on you labour in vain." 
Galatians4:12 Brethren I beseech you, be ye as I am: for I am as ye are. Ye have not hurt me. (at all)" 
Galatians4:13 Ye know well how that thorow infirmity of(in weakness after) the flesh, I preached the gospel(gospell) unto you at the first:" 
Galatians4:14 and my temptation which I suffered by reason of my flesh, ye despised not, neither abhorred: but received me as an angel of God: yea as(yea even as) Christ Jesus." 
Galatians4:15 How happy were ye then? for I bear you record that if it had been possible, ye would have digged(plucked) out your own eyes, and have given them to me." 
Galatians4:16 Am I so greatly(therefore) become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?" 
Galatians4:17 They are jealous over you amiss. Yea they intend to exclude you(they would make you to fall back) that ye should(might) be fervent to them ward. 
Galatians4:18 It is good always to be fervent, so it be(so that it be alway) in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you." 
Galatians4:19 My little children (of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be fashioned in you) 
Galatians4:20 I would I were with you now, and could change my voice, for I stand in a doubt of you." 
Galatians4:21 Tell me ye that desire to be(wylbe) under the law: have ye not heard of the law? 
Galatians4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman." 
Galatians4:23 Yea and he which was of the bondwoman, was born after the flesh: but he which was of the freewoman, was born by promise." 
Galatians4:24 Which things betoken mystery.(These words betonken somewhat) For these women are two testaments, the one from the mount Sina, which gendreth unto bondage, which is Agar." 
Galatians4:25 (For mount Sinai is called Agar in Arabia, and bordereth upon(reacheth unto) the city which is now Jerusalem) and is in bondage with her children." 
Galatians4:26 But Jerusalem, which is above, is free:(the free woman) which is the mother of us all." 
Galatians4:27 For it is written: rejoice thou barren, that bearest no children: break forth and cry, thou that travailest not. For the desolate hath many more children, than she which hath an husband." 
Galatians4:28 Brethren we are after the manner of Isaac children of promise:(As for us (brethren) we are the children of Isaac according to the promise) 
Galatians4:29 But as then he that was born carnally,(after the flesh) persecuted him that was born spiritually;(after the spirit) Even so is it now." 
Galatians4:30 Nevertheless what saith the scripture: Cast(put) a way the bondwoman and her son. For the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the free woman. 
Galatians4:31 So then brethren we are not children of the bondwoman:(bond maid) but of the freewoman. 
Galatians5:1 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and wrap not yourselves(be not wrapped) again in the yoke of bondage." 
Galatians5:2 Behold I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing at all." 
Galatians5:3 I testify again to every man which is circumcised that he is bound to keep the whole law. 
Galatians5:4 Ye are gone quite from Christ as many as are justified(wylbe made righteous) by the law, and are fallen from grace." 
Galatians5:5 We look for and hope to be justified by the spirit which cometh of faith.(We look for, and hope in the spirit, to be justified thorow faith.)(But we wait in the spirit of hope, to be made righteous by faith)" 
Galatians5:6 For in Jesu(Iesus) Christ, neither is circumcision anything worth, neither yet uncircumcision, but faith which by love is mighty in operation." 
Galatians5:7 Ye did run well. Who was a let unto you, that ye should not obey the truth? (consent unto no man)" 
Galatians5:8 Even that counsel that is not of him that called you. 
Galatians5:9 A little leaven doth leaven(sowreth) the whole lump of dough. 
Galatians5:10 I have trust toward you in God,(the LORDE) that ye will be none otherwise minded. He that troubleth you shall bear his judgement, whatsoever he be." 
Galatians5:11 Brethren if I yet preach circumcision: why do I then yet suffer persecution? For then had the offense which the cross giveth ceased.(then had the slander of the cross ceased) 
Galatians5:12 I would to God they were sundered(seperated) from you(rooted out from among you) which trouble you. 
Galatians5:13 Brethren ye were called into liberty, only let not your liberty be an occasion unto the flesh but in love (of the spirit) serve one another." 
Galatians5:14 For all the law is fulfilled in one word, which is(namely in) this: Thou shalt love thine neighbour as thyself." 
Galatians5:15 If ye bite and devour one another: take heed lest ye be consumed one of another. 
Galatians5:16 I say walk in the spirit, and fulfil not(and so shall ye not fulfil) the lusts of the flesh." 
Galatians5:17 For the flesh lusteth contrary to(against) the spirit, and the spirit contrary to(against) the flesh. These are contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do that which ye would." 
Galatians5:18 But and if ye be led of the spirit, then are ye not under the law." 
Galatians5:19 The deeds of the flesh are manifest, which are these, advoutry, fornication,(whoredom) uncleanness, wantonness," 
Galatians5:20 idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, lawing,(variance) zeal, wrath, strife, sedition, part takings,(sects)" 
Galatians5:21 envying, murder, drunkenness, gluttony, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have told you in time past, that they which commit such things shall not be inheritors of(shall not inherit) the kingdom of God:" 
Galatians5:22 but the fruit of the spirit is, love, joy, peace, longsuffering gentleness, goodness, faithfulness, meekness, temperancy:(temperance.)" 
Galatians5:23 Against such there is no law. 
Galatians5:24 They that are Christ's,(Christis) have crucified the flesh with the appetites(desires) and lusts." 
Galatians5:25 If we live in the spirit let us walk in the spirit. 
Galatians5:26 Let us not be vain glorious, provoking one another, and envying one another." 
Galatians6:1 Brethren, if any man be fallen by chance into any(be overtaken of a) fault: ye which are spiritual, help to amend(enform) him, in the spirit of meekness: considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted." 
Galatians6:2 Bear ye one another's burden: and so fulfil the law of Christ. 
Galatians6:3 If a(any) man seem to himself that he is somewhat when indeed he is nothing, the same deceiveth himself in his imagination." 
Galatians6:4 Let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in his own self, and not in another." 
Galatians6:5 For every man(one) shall bear his own burden. 
Galatians6:6 Let him that is taught in the word, minister unto him that teacheth him in all good things." 
Galatians6:7 Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he reap." 
Galatians6:8 He that soweth in his flesh, shall of the flesh reap corruption:(destruction) but he that soweth in the spirit shall, of the spirit reap life everlasting." 
Galatians6:9 Let us do good, and let us not faint.(Let us not be weary of well doing.) For when the time is come we shall reap without weariness.(ceasing)" 
Galatians6:10 While we have therefore time let us do good unto all men, and specially, unto them which are of the household of faith." 
Galatians6:11 Behold how large a letter(with how many words) I have written unto you with mine own hand. 
Galatians6:12 As many as desire with outward(uttwarde) appearance to please carnally,(They that will please in the flesh) they constrain you to be circumcised, only because they would not suffer persecution with the cross of Christ." 
Galatians6:13 For they them selves which are circumcised keep not the law: but desire to have you circumcised that they might rejoice in your flesh. 
Galatians6:14 God forbid that I should rejoice but in the cross of our Lord Jesu Christ, whereby the world is crucified as touching me, and I as concerning the world." 
Galatians6:15 For in Christ Jesu nether circumcision availeth any thing at all nor uncircumcision: but a new creature. 
Galatians6:16 And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on(upon) them, and mercy, and upon Israel that pertaineth to God." 
Galatians6:17 From hence forth, let no man put me to business. For I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesu." 
Galatians6:18 Brethren the grace of our Lord Jesu Christe be with your spirit, Amen. [Unto the Galatians written from Rome.]" 
Ephesians1:1 Paul an apostle of Jesu Christ, by the will of God. To the saints (which are) at Ephesus, and to them which believe on Jesus Christ." 
Ephesians1:2 Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Ephesians1:3 Blessed be God the father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which hath blessed us with all manner of spiritual blessings in heavenly things by Christ," 
Ephesians1:4 according as he had chosen us in him thorow love, before the foundation of the world was laid, that we should be saints,(holy) and without blame in his sight.(and without blame before him, thorow love.)" 
Ephesians1:5 And ordained us before unto him self that we should be chosen to heirs(to receive us as children) thorow Jesus Christ,(before through Jesus Christ to be heirs unto him self) according to the pleasure of his will," 
Ephesians1:6 to the praise of his glorious grace,(to the praise of the glory of his grace) where with he hath made us accepted in the beloved." 
Ephesians1:7 By whom we have redemption thorow his blood, that is to say(even)(namely) the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace," 
Ephesians1:8 which grace he shed on us abundantly in all wisdom, and prudency.(perceivance.)" 
Ephesians1:9 And hath opened unto us the mystery of his will according to his pleasure, and purposed" 
Ephesians1:10 the same in himself to have it declared when the time were full come, that all things, both the things which are in heaven, and also the things which are in earth, should be gathered together, even in Christ: that is to say in him" 
Ephesians1:11 in whom we are made heirs, and were thereto predestinate according to the purpose of him which worketh all things after the purpose(counsel) of his own will:" 
Ephesians1:12 that we should be unto the praise of his glory, which before hoped(believed) in Christ." 
Ephesians1:13 In whom also ye (after that ye heard the word of truth, I mean the gospel(gospell) of your health,(salvation) wherein ye believed) were sealed with the holy spirit of promise," 
Ephesians1:14 which is the earnest of our inheritance, to redeem the possession purchased(to our redemption) (,and that) unto the laud(praise) of his glory." 
Ephesians1:15 Wherefore even I (after that I heard of the faith which ye have in the Lord Jesu, and love unto all the saints)" 
Ephesians1:16 cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers," 
Ephesians1:17 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the father of glory, might give unto you the spirit of wisdom, and open to you the knowledge of himself," 
Ephesians1:18 and lighten the eyes of your minds,(understanding) that ye might know what thing that hope is, whereunto he hath called you,(what is the hope of your calling) and how glorious the riches of his(what the riches of his glorious) inheritance is upon the saints," 
Ephesians1:19 and what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us ward,(toward us) which believe according to the working of that his mighty power," 
Ephesians1:20 which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from death,(the dead) and set him on his right hand in heavenly things," 
Ephesians1:21 above all rule, power, and might, and domination, and above all names that are named, not in this world only, but also in the world to come." 
Ephesians1:22 And hath put all things under his feet, and hath made him above all things, the head of the congregation," 
Ephesians1:23 which is his body, and fullness of him, that filleth all in all things." 
Ephesians2:1 And hath quickened you(you hath he quickened) also that were dead in trespass and sin," 
Ephesians2:2 in the which in time passed ye walked, according to the course of this world, and after the governor,(prince) that ruleth in the air,(air namely, after) the spirit that now worketh in the children of unbelief," 
Ephesians2:3 among which we also had our conversation in time past, in the lusts of our flesh, and fulfilled the will of the flesh, and of the mind: and were naturally the children of wrath, even as well as other.(others)" 
Ephesians2:4 But God which is rich in mercy thorow his great love wherewith he loved us," 
Ephesians2:5 even when we were dead by sin, hath quickened us with(together in) Christ (For by grace are ye saved)" 
Ephesians2:6 and with him hath raised us up, and with him hath made us sit in heavenly things, thorow Jesus Christ;(and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly things thorow Christ Iesus)" 
Ephesians2:7 For to shew in times to come the exceeding riches of his grace, in kindness to us ward, thorow(in) Christ Jesus.(Iesu.)" 
Ephesians2:8 For by grace are ye made safe(saved) thorow faith, and that not of your selves: For it is the gift of God," 
Ephesians2:9 and cometh not of works, lest any man should boast himself." 
Ephesians2:10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesu unto good works, unto the which God ordained us before, that we should walk in them." 
Ephesians2:11 Wherefore remember that ye being in time past gentiles in the flesh, and were called uncircumcision of(to) them which are called circumcision in the flesh, which circumcision is made by hands:" 
Ephesians2:12 Remember I say, that ye were at that time without Christ, and were reputed aliens from the common wealth of Israel, and were fremed(strangers) from the testaments of promise, and had no hope, and were without God in this world." 
Ephesians2:13 But now in Christ Jesu, ye which a while ago were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ." 
Ephesians2:14 For he is our peace, which hath made of both one, and hath broken down the wall in the midst, that was a stop between us," 
Ephesians2:15 and hath also put away thorow his flesh, the cause of hatred (that is to say, the law of commandments contained in the law written,) for to make of twain one new man in himself, so making peace:" 
Ephesians2:16 and to reconcile both unto God in one body thorow his cross, and slew hatred thereby:" 
Ephesians2:17 and came and preached peace(peace in the Gospell) to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh." 
Ephesians2:18 For thorow him we both have an open way in,(have entrance) in one spirit unto the father." 
Ephesians2:19 Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners:(guests) but citizens with the saints, and of the household of God:" 
Ephesians2:20 and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ being the head cornerstone," 
Ephesians2:21 in whom every building coupled together, groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord," 
Ephesians2:22 in whom ye also are built together, and made an habitation for God in the spirit. (holy ghost)" 
Ephesians3:1 For this cause I Paul the servant of Jesus (Christ) am in bonds; For your sakes which are gentiles.(heathen:) 
Ephesians3:2 If ye have heard of the ministration of the grace of God which is given me to you ward: 
Ephesians3:3 For by revelation shewed he this mystery unto me, as I wrote above in few words," 
Ephesians3:4 whereby, when ye read ye may know mine understanding in the ministery(mystery) of Christ," 
Ephesians3:5 which mystery in times passed was not opened unto the sons of men as it is now declared unto his holy apostles and prophets by the spirit: 
Ephesians3:6 that the gentiles should be inheritors also, and of the same body, and partakers of his promise that is in Christ, by the means of the gospel,(gospell)" 
Ephesians3:7 whereof I am made a minister, by the gift of the grace of God given unto me, after(thorow) the working of his power." 
Ephesians3:8 Unto me the least of all saints is this grace given, that I should preach among the gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ," 
Ephesians3:9 and to give light to(make) all men,(see) that they might know what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God which made all things thorow Jesus Christ," 
Ephesians3:10 to the intent, that now unto the rulers and powers in heaven might be known by the congregation the manyfold wisdom of God," 
Ephesians3:11 according to that eternal purpose, which he purposed(hath shewed) in Christ Jesu our Lord," 
Ephesians3:12 by whom we are bold to draw nigh in that trust, which we have by faith on him.(by whom we have boldness and entrance in all confidence thorow faith on him)" 
Ephesians3:13 Wherefore I desire, that ye faint not because of mine(my) tribulations which I suffer for you:(your sakes:) which is your praise." 
Ephesians3:14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the father of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Ephesians3:15 which is father(the true father) over all that is called father In heaven and in earth, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory," 
Ephesians3:16 that ye may be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man," 
Ephesians3:17 that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love," 
Ephesians3:18 might be able to comprehend with all saints, what is that breadth and length, depth and height:(heyth)" 
Ephesians3:19 and to know what is the love of Christ, which love passeth knowledge: that ye might be fulfilled with all manner of fullness which cometh of God." 
Ephesians3:20 Unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly, above all that we ask or think,(understand) according to the power that worketh in us," 
Ephesians3:21 be praise in the congregation by(which is in) Jesus Christ, thorow out all generations from time to time.(at all times for ever and ever) Amen." 
Ephesians4:1 I therefore which am in bonds for the Lord's sake exhort you, that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called,(walk as it becometh your calling wherein ye are called)" 
Ephesians4:2 in all humbleness of mind, and meekness, and long suffering, forbearing one another thorow love," 
Ephesians4:3 and that ye be diligent to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace," 
Ephesians4:4 being one body, and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling." 
Ephesians4:5 Let there be but one Lord, one faith, one baptism:" 
Ephesians4:6 one God and father of all, which is above all, thorow all, and in us all.(and in you all)" 
Ephesians4:7 Unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. 
Ephesians4:8 Wherefore he saith: He is gone up on high, and hath led(led away) captivity captive, and hath given gifts unto men." 
Ephesians4:9 That he ascended: what meaneth it,(went up, what is it) but that he also descended(came down) first into the lowest parts of the earth?" 
Ephesians4:10 He that descended, is even the same also that ascended up, even above all heavens, to fulfil all things." 
Ephesians4:11 And the very same, made some Apostles, some Prophets, some Evangelists, some Shepherds, some Teachers:" 
Ephesians4:12 that the saints might have all things necessary to work and minister withal, to the edifying of the body of Christ," 
Ephesians4:13 till we everyeachone (in the unity of faith,(we all come unto one manner of faith) and knowledge of the son of God) grow up unto a perfect man, after the measure of age which is in(of) the fullness of Christ:(and become a perfect man in to the measure of the perfect age of Christ)" 
Ephesians4:14 That we henceforth be no more children wavering and carried with every wind of doctrine, by the wiliness(wickedness) of men and craftiness, whereby they lay a wait for us to deceive us." 
Ephesians4:15 But let us follow the truth in love, and in all things grow in him which is the head, that is to say Christ," 
Ephesians4:16 in whom all the body is coupled and knit together, in every joint, wherewith one ministereth to another (according to the operation as every part(member) hath his measure) and increaseth the body,(maketh the body grow) unto the edifying of itself in love." 
Ephesians4:17 This I say herefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as other gentiles walk, in vanities(vanity) of their mind," 
Ephesians4:18 blinded in their understanding, being strangers from the life which is in God, thorow the ignorancy that is in them, because of the blindness of their hearts:" 
Ephesians4:19 which being past repentance have given themselves unto wantonness, to work all manner of uncleanness even with greediness." 
Ephesians4:20 But ye have not so learned Christ; 
Ephesians4:21 If so be ye have heard of him, and are taught in him, even as the truth is in Jesu:" 
Ephesians4:22 so then as concerning the conversation in time past, lay from you that old man, which is corrupt thorow the deceivable lusts," 
Ephesians4:23 and be ye renewed in the spirit of your minds," 
Ephesians4:24 and put on that new man, which after a godly wise,(which after the image of God) is shapen in righteousness, and true holiness." 
Ephesians4:25 Wherefore put away lying, and speak every man truth unto his neighbor, forasmuch as we are members one of another." 
Ephesians4:26 Be angry, but sin not: let not the son go down upon your wrath," 
Ephesians4:27 give no(neither give) place unto the backbiter," 
Ephesians4:28 let him that stole steal no more, but let him rather labour with his hands some good thing, that he may have to give unto him that needeth." 
Ephesians4:29 Let no filthy communication proceed out of your mouths: but that which is good to edify withal, when need is: that it may have favour with the hearers." 
Ephesians4:30 And grieve not the holy spirit of God, by whom ye are sealed unto the day of redemption." 
Ephesians4:31 Let all bitterness, fierceness and wrath, roaring and cursed speaking, be put away from you, with all maliciousness." 
Ephesians4:32 Be ye courteous one to another, be(and) merciful forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's(Christes) sake forgave you." 
Ephesians5:1 Be ye followers of God as dear children," 
Ephesians5:2 and walk in love even as Christ loved us, and gave himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice of a sweet savour to God." 
Ephesians5:3 So that fornication,(whoredom) and all uncleanness, or covetousness, be not once, named among you, as it becometh saints:" 
Ephesians5:4 neither filthiness, neither foolish talking, neither jestings, which are not comely: but rather giving of thanks." 
Ephesians5:5 For this ye know, that no whoremonger, either unclean person, or covetous person (which is the worshipper of images) hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ, and of God." 
Ephesians5:6 Let no man deceive you with vain words. For thorow such things(Because of these) cometh the wrath of God upon the children of unbelief. 
Ephesians5:7 Be not therefore companions with them. 
Ephesians5:8 Ye were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light." 
Ephesians5:9 For the fruit of the spirit is, in all goodness, righteousness, and truth." 
Ephesians5:10 Accept that which(and prone what) is pleasing to the Lord: 
Ephesians5:11 and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness: but rather rebuke them. 
Ephesians5:12 For it is shame even to name those things which are done of them in secret: 
Ephesians5:13 but all things, when they are rebuked of the light, are manifest. For whatsoever is manifest, that same is light." 
Ephesians5:14 Wherefore he saith: awake thou that sleepest, and stand up from death, and Christ shall give thee light." 
Ephesians5:15 Take heed therefore that ye walk circumspectly: not as fools:(unwise) but as wise," 
Ephesians5:16 redeeming the time: for the days are evil: 
Ephesians5:17 wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is," 
Ephesians5:18 and be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess: but be fulfilled with(full of) the spirit," 
Ephesians5:19 speaking unto yourselves in(and talk among your selves of) psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and playing(making melody) to the Lord in your hearts," 
Ephesians5:20 giving thanks always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesu Christ to God the father:(giving thanks all ways for all things unto God the father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ:)" 
Ephesians5:21 submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. 
Ephesians5:22 Women submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord." 
Ephesians5:23 For the husband is the wife's head, even as Christ is the head of the congregation, and the same is the saviour of the body." 
Ephesians5:24 Therefore as the congregation is in subjection to Christ, likewise let the wives be in subjection to their husbands in all things." 
Ephesians5:25 Husbands love your wives, even as Christ loved the congregation, and gave himself for it," 
Ephesians5:26 to sanctify it, and cleansed it in the fountain of water thorow(by) the word," 
Ephesians5:27 to make it unto himself, a glorious congregation without spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing: but that it should be holy and without blame." 
Ephesians5:28 So ought men to love their wives, as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife, loveth himself." 
Ephesians5:29 For no man ever yet, hated his own flesh: But nourisheth, and cherisheth it: even as the Lord doth the congregation:" 
Ephesians5:30 for we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones." 
Ephesians5:31 For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall continue with his wife, and two shall be made one flesh." 
Ephesians5:32 This is a great secret, but I speak between Christ and the congregation." 
Ephesians5:33 Nevertheless do ye so that every one of you love his wife truly even as himself: And let the wife see that she fear her husband. 
Ephesians6:1 Children obey your fathers and mothers(elders) in the Lord: for so is it right. 
Ephesians6:2 Honour (thy) father and mother, that is the first commandment that hath any promise," 
Ephesians6:3 that thou mayst be in good estate,(mayest prosper) and live long on the(upon) earth." 
Ephesians6:4 (And ye) Fathers, move(provoke) not your children to wrath: but bring them up with the nurture and information of the Lord." 
Ephesians6:5 Servants be obedient unto your carnal masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your hearts, as unto Christ:" 
Ephesians6:6 not with service in the eye sight, as men pleasers: but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart" 
Ephesians6:7 with good will, even as though ye served the Lord,(serving the Lord) and not men." 
Ephesians6:8 And remember that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, that shall he receive again of the Lord, whether he be bond or free." 
Ephesians6:9 And ye masters, do even the same things unto them, putting away threatenings: and remember(know) that even your master also is in heaven, neither is there any respect of person with him." 
Ephesians6:10 Finally, my brethren be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might." 
Ephesians6:11 Put on the armour of God, that ye may stand steadfast against the crafty assaults of the devil." 
Ephesians6:12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood: but against rule, against power, (namely) and against worldly rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in(for) heavenly things.(under the heaven)" 
Ephesians6:13 For this cause take unto you the armour of God, that ye may be able to resist in the evil day, and to stand perfect in all things." 
Ephesians6:14 Stand therefore and your loins gird about with verity,(trueth) having on the breastplate of righteousness," 
Ephesians6:15 and shod with shoes prepared by the gospel(gospell) of peace. 
Ephesians6:16 Above all take to you the shield of faith, wherewith ye may quench all the fiery darts of the wicked." 
Ephesians6:17 And take the helmet of health,(salvation) and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God," 
Ephesians6:18 and pray always with all manner prayer and supplication: and that in the spirit: and watch thereunto with all instance and supplication for all saints," 
Ephesians6:19 and for me, that utterance(the word) may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth(mought) boldly, to utter the secrets of the gospel,(gospell)" 
Ephesians6:20 whereof I am a messenger in bonds, that therein I may speak freely, as it becometh me to speak." 
Ephesians6:21 But that ye may also know that condition(case) I am in, and what I do, Tichicus my dear brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall shew you of all things," 
Ephesians6:22 whom I sent unto you for the same purpose,(cause) that ye might know what case I stand in, and that he might comfort your hearts." 
Ephesians6:23 Peace be with(unto) the brethren, and love with faith from God the father, and from the Lord Jesu Christ." 
Ephesians6:24 Grace be with all them which love our Lord Jesus Christ in pureness,(unfeignedly) Amen. [Sent from Rome unto the Ephesians by Tichicus.]" 
Philippians1:1 Paul and Timotheus the servants of Jesu Christ. To all the saints in Christ Jesu which are at Philippos, with the bishops and deacons.(ministers)" 
Philippians1:2 Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christe." 
Philippians1:3 I thank my God with all remembrance of you," 
Philippians1:4 always in all my prayers for you all, and pray with gladness," 
Philippians1:5 because of the fellowship which ye have in the gospel(gospell) from the first day unto now," 
Philippians1:6 and am surely certified of this, that he which began a good work in you shall perform(go forth with) it until the day of Jesus Christ," 
Philippians1:7 as it becometh me so to judge of you all, because I have you in my heart, and have you also every one companions of grace with me, even in my bonds as I defend, and stablish the gospel.(gospell)" 
Philippians1:8 (For) God beareth me record how greatly I long after you all from the very heart root(rote) in Jesus Christ. 
Philippians1:9 And this I pray, that your love may increase more and more in knowledge,(all manner of knowledge) and in all fealing,(experience)" 
Philippians1:10 that ye might accept things most excellent,(that ye may prove what is best) that ye might be pure and such as should hurt no man's conscience, until the day of Christ," 
Philippians1:11 filled with the fruits of righteousness, which fruits come by Jesus Christ unto the glory and laud(praise) of God." 
Philippians1:12 I would ye understood brethren that my business is happened unto the greater furthering(furtherance) of the gospel.(gospell) 
Philippians1:13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest thorow out all the judgement hall: and in all other places; 
Philippians1:14 Insomuch that many of the brethren in the Lord are boldened thorow my bonds, and dare more largely speak the word without fear." 
Philippians1:15 Some there are which preach Christ of envy and strife, and some of goodwill." 
Philippians1:16 The one part preacheth Christ of strife, and not purely, supposing to add more adversity to my bonds." 
Philippians1:17 The other part of love, because they see that I am set to defend(for the defence of) the gospel.(to gospell)" 
Philippians1:18 What thing is this? Notwithstanding by all manner ways, whether it be by occasion or of truth, yet Christ is preached: and therefore I joy.(What then? So that Christ be preached all manner ways, whether it be by occasion, or of true meaning, I therein joy:) Yea and will joy." 
Philippians1:19 For I know that this shall be for my health,(chance for my salvation) thorow your prayer, and ministering of the spirit of Jesu Christ," 
Philippians1:20 as I heartily look for and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed: but that with all confidence, as always in times past, even so now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be thorow life, or else death." 
Philippians1:21 For Christ is to me life, and death is to me advantage." 
Philippians1:22 If it chance me to live in the flesh, that is to me fruitful for to work, and what to choose I wot not." 
Philippians1:23 I am constrained of two things: I desire to be loosed,(lowsed) and to be with Christ, which thing is best of all:" 
Philippians1:24 Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. 
Philippians1:25 And this am I sure of, that I shall abide, and with you all continue, for the furtherance and joy of your faith," 
Philippians1:26 that ye may more abundantly rejoice in Jesus Christ thorow me, by my coming to you again." 
Philippians1:27 Only let your conversation be, as it becometh the gospel(gospell) of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may yet hear of you, that ye continue in one spirit, and in one soul laboring as we do to maintain the faith of the gospel,(gospell)" 
Philippians1:28 and in nothing fearing your adversaries: which is to them a token of perdition, and to you a sign of health,(salvation) and that of God." 
Philippians1:29 For unto you it is given, that not only ye should believe on Christ: but also suffer for his sake," 
Philippians1:30 and have even the same fight which ye saw me have and now hear of me. 
Philippians2:1 If there be among you any consolation in Christ, if there be any comfortable love, if there be any fellowship of the spirit, if there be any compassion of mercy:" 
Philippians2:2 fulfil my joy, that ye draw one way, having one love, being of one accord, and of one mind," 
Philippians2:3 that nothing be done thorow strife or vain glory, but in meekness of mind. Let every person think every other man better than himself,(but that in meekness of mind every man esteem other better than him self,)" 
Philippians2:4 so that ye consider every man, not what is in himself: But what is in wother men.(and that no man consider his awne, but what is mete for other)(and let every man look not for his own profit, but for the profit of other)" 
Philippians2:5 Let the same mind be in you the which(that) was in Christ Jesu: 
Philippians2:6 Which being in the shape of God, and thought it not robbery to be equal with God." 
Philippians2:7 Nevertheless he made himself of no reputation, and took on him the shape of a servant, and became like unto men, and was found in his apparel as a man." 
Philippians2:8 He humbled himself and became obedient unto the death, even the death of the cross." 
Philippians2:9 Wherefore God hath exalted him, and given him a name above all names:" 
Philippians2:10 that in the name of Jesus should every knee bow, both of things in heaven, and things in(upon) earth and things under earth," 
Philippians2:11 and that all tongues should confess that Jesus Christ is the Lord unto the praise of God the father. 
Philippians2:12 Wherefore my dearly beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not when I was present only, but now much more in mine absence, even so perform(work out) your own health(salvation) with fear and trembling." 
Philippians2:13 For it is God which worketh in you, both the will and also the deed, even of good will." 
Philippians2:14 Do all things without murmuring and disputing," 
Philippians2:15 that ye may be faultless, and pure, and the sons(children) of God, without rebuke, in the midst(middes) of a crooked, and a perverse nation, among which see that ye shine as lights in the world," 
Philippians2:16 holding fast the word of life, unto my rejoicing in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither have laboured in vain." 
Philippians2:17 Yea and though I be offered up on your sacrifice and of your serving of God in the faith:(i be offered up upon the offering and sacrifice of your faith:) I rejoice and rejoice with you all. 
Philippians2:18 For the same cause also, rejoice ye, and rejoice ye with me." 
Philippians2:19 I trust in the Lord Jesus for to send Timotheus shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know what case ye stand in." 
Philippians2:20 For I have no man that is so like minded to me, which with so pure affection careth for your matters." 
Philippians2:21 For all others seek their own, and not that which is Jesus Christ's.(Iesus Christes)" 
Philippians2:22 Ye know the proof of him, how that as a son(child) with the father, so with me bestowed he his labour upon(so hath he ministered unto me in) the gospel.(gospell)" 
Philippians2:23 Him I hope to send as soon as I know how it will go with me. 
Philippians2:24 I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly. 
Philippians2:25 I supposed(thought) it necessary to send brother Epaphreditus unto you, my companion in labour and fellowsoldier, your apostle, and my minister at my needs." 
Philippians2:26 For he longed after you, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard say that he should be sick," 
Philippians2:27 and no doubt he was sick, and that nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him: not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have had sorrow upon sorrow." 
Philippians2:28 I sent him therefore the diligentlier,(the more haistely) that when ye should see him, ye might rejoice again, and I might be the less sorrowful." 
Philippians2:29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and make much of such:" 
Philippians2:30 because that for the work of Christ he went so far, that he was nigh unto death, and regarded not his life, to fulfil that service which was lacking on your part toward me." 
Philippians3:1 Moreover brethren mine,(my brethren) rejoice in the Lord. It grieveth me not to write the very same things unto(one thing often to) you. For to you it is a sure thing." 
Philippians3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers. Beware of dissension:" 
Philippians3:3 For we are circumcision which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesu, and have no confidence in the flesh:" 
Philippians3:4 though I have whereof I might rejoice in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust(rejoice) in the flesh: much more I: 
Philippians3:5 circumcised the eighth day, of the kindred(one of the people) of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin an Hebrew born of the Hebrews: as concerning the law, a pharisee," 
Philippians3:5 circumcised the eighth day, of the kindred(one of the people) of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin an Hebrew born of the Hebrews: as concerning the law, a pharisee," 
Philippians3:6 and as concerning ferventness I persecuted the congregation, and as touching the righteousness which is in the law I was such a one as no man could complain on.(unrebukable.)" 
Philippians3:7 But the things that were winning(vantage) unto me I counted loss for Christ's(Christes) sake. 
Philippians3:8 Yea I think all things but loss for that excellent knowledge's sake of Christ Jesu my Lord. For whom I have counted all thing loss, and do judge them but dung, that I might win Christ," 
Philippians3:9 and might be found in him, not having mine own righteousness which is(commeth) of the law: But that which springeth of the faith which is in Christ. I mean(namely) the righteousness which cometh of God thorow(in) faith" 
Philippians3:10 in knowing him, and the virtue of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his passions, that I might be conformable unto his death," 
Philippians3:11 if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection from death.(of the dead.) 
Philippians3:12 Not as though I had all ready received(attained to) it, either were all ready perfect: but I follow, if that I may comprehend that, wherein I am comprehended of Christ Jesu." 
Philippians3:13 Brethren I count not myself that I have gotten it: but one thing I say: I forget that which is behind me, and stretch myself unto that which is before me" 
Philippians3:14 and press unto that mark appointed, to obtain the reward of the high calling of God in Christ Jesu." 
Philippians3:15 Let us therefore as many as be perfect be thus wise minded: and if ye be other wise minded, I pray God open even this unto you." 
Philippians3:16 Nevertheless in that whereunto we are come, let us proceed by one rule, that we may be of one accord." 
Philippians3:17 Brethren be followers of me, and look on them which walk even so, as ye have us for an ensample." 
Philippians3:18 For many walk (of whom I have told you often, and now tell you weeping) that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ," 
Philippians3:19 whose end is damnation, whose God is their belly and (whose) glory (is) to their shame, which are worldly(earthly) minded." 
Philippians3:20 But our conversation is in heaven, from whence we look for the(a) saviour (,even the Lord) Jesus Christ," 
Philippians3:21 which shall change into another fashion our vile bodies, that they may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself." 
Philippians4:1 Herefore(Therefore my) brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so continue beloved in the Lord.(so continue in the lorde ye beloved)" 
Philippians4:2 I pray Euodias, and beseech Sintiches that they be of one accord(mind) in the Lord." 
Philippians4:3 Yea and I beseech thee faithful yokefellow, help the women which laboured with me in the gospel,(gospell) and with Clement also, and with other my labour fellows, whose names are in the book of life." 
Philippians4:4 Rejoice in the Lord alway, and again I say rejoice." 
Philippians4:5 Let your softness be known unto all men. The Lord is even at hand. 
Philippians4:6 Be not careful: but in all things shew your petition unto God in prayer and supplication with giving of thanks. 
Philippians4:7 And the peace of God which passeth all understanding keep your hearts, and minds in Christ Jesu." 
Philippians4:8 Furthermore brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things pertain to love, whatsoever things are of honest report, if there be any virtuous thing, if there be any laudable thing, (of learning) those same have ye in your mind," 
Philippians4:9 which ye have both learned and received, heard and also seen in me: those things do, and the God of peace shall be with you." 
Philippians4:10 I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last ye are revived, and are waxed mindful of(again to care for) me again in that wherein ye were also mindful,(carefull) but ye lacked opportunity." 
Philippians4:11 I speak not because of necessity. For I have learned in whatsoever estate I am, therewith to be content." 
Philippians4:12 I can both cast down myself, I can also exceed.(I can be low, and I can be hye) Everywhere, and in all things I am instructed,(mete) both to be full, and to be hungry: to have plenty, and to suffer need." 
Philippians4:13 I can do all things thorow the help of Christ, which strengtheneth me." 
Philippians4:14 Notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye bare part with me in my tribulation." 
Philippians4:15 Ye of Philippos know that in the beginning of the gospel,(gospell) when I departed from Macedonia, no congregation bare part with me as concerning giving and receiving but ye only." 
Philippians4:16 For when I was in Thessalonica, ye sent once, and afterward again, unto my needs:(necessity)" 
Philippians4:17 not that I desire(seek) gifts: but I desire(seek) abundant fruit on your part.(in your reckoning) 
Philippians4:18 I received all, and have plenty. I was even filled after that I had(have) received of Epaphroditus, that which came from you, an odor that smelleth sweet, a sacrifice accepted and pleasant to God." 
Philippians4:19 My God fulfil all your needs thorow his glorious riches in Jesu Christ. 
Philippians4:20 Unto God and our father be praise for ever more Amen. 
Philippians4:21 Salute all the saints in Christ Jesu. The brethren which are with me greet you. 
Philippians4:22 All the saints salute you: and most of all(specially) they which are of the emperors household. 
Philippians4:23 The grace of our Lord Jesu Christ be with you all Amen. [Here ends the epistle of saint Paul the Apostle unto the Philippians, Sent from Rome by Epaphroditus.]" 
Colossians1:1 Paul an apostle of Jesu Christ by the will of God, and brother Timotheus." 
Colossians1:2 To the saints which are at Colossa, and brethren that believe in Christ. Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesu Christ." 
Colossians1:3 We give thanks to God the father of our Lord Jesus Christ alway praying for you in our prayers," 
Colossians1:4 since we heard of your faith which ye have in Christ Jesu: and of the love which ye bear to all saints 
Colossians1:5 for the hope's sake which is laid up in store for you in heaven, of which hope ye have heard (before) by the true word of the gospel,(gospell)" 
Colossians1:6 which is come unto you, even as it is into all the world, and is fruitful (and groweth) as it is among you, from the first day in the which ye heard of it, and had experience in(knew) the grace of God in the truth," 
Colossians1:7 as ye learned of Epaphra our dear fellow servant, which is for you a faithful minister in(of) Christ," 
Colossians1:8 which also declared unto us your love, which ye have in the spirit." 
Colossians1:9 For this cause we also, since the day we heard of it have not ceased praying for you, and desiring that ye might be fulfilled with the knowledge of his will, in all wisdom and spiritual understanding," 
Colossians1:10 that ye might walk worthy of the Lord in all things that please, being fruitful in all good works and increasing in the knowledge of God" 
Colossians1:11 strengthed with all might, thorow his glorious power,(power according to the might of his glory) unto all patience, and long suffering, with joyfulness," 
Colossians1:12 giving thanks unto the father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of saints in light. 
Colossians1:13 Which hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son," 
Colossians1:14 in whom we have redemption thorow his blood, that is to say,(namely the) forgiveness of sins," 
Colossians1:15 which is the image of the invisible God, first begotten before(of) all creatures:" 
Colossians1:16 for by him were all things created, things that are in heaven, and things that are in earth: things visible, and things invisible: whether they be majesty or lordship, either rule or power." 
Colossians1:17 All things are created by him, and in him, and he is before all things, and in him all things have their being." 
Colossians1:18 And he is the head of the body, that is to wit of the congregation, he is the beginning and first begotten of the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence." 
Colossians1:19 For it pleased the father that in him should all fullness dwell," 
Colossians1:20 and by him to reconcile all things unto himself, and to set at peace by him thorow the blood of his cross both things in heaven and things in earth." 
Colossians1:21 And you (which were in times past strangers and enemies, because your minds were set in evil works) hath he now reconciled" 
Colossians1:22 in the body of his flesh thorow death, to make you holy, and such as no man could complain on,(unblameable) and without fault in his own sight," 
Colossians1:23 if ye continue grounded and stablished in the faith, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel,(gospell) whereof ye have heard, how that it is preached among all creatures, which are under heaven, whereof I Paul am made a minister." 
Colossians1:24 Now joy I in my passions(sufferings) which I suffer for you, and fulfil that which is behind of the afflictions(passions) of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the congregation," 
Colossians1:25 whereof am I made a minister according to the ordinance of God,(the Godly office of preaching) which ordinance was given me unto you ward, to fulfil the word of God,(that I should richely preach the word of God, namely)" 
Colossians1:26 that mystery hid since the world began, and since the beginning of generations: But now is opened to his saints," 
Colossians1:27 to whom God would make known the glorious riches of this mystery among the gentiles, which riches is Christ in you, the hope of glory," 
Colossians1:28 whom we preach warning all men, and teaching all men in all wisdom, to make all men perfect in Christ Jesu:" 
Colossians1:29 Wherein I also labour and strive, even as far forth as his working worketh in me mightily." 
Colossians2:1 I would ye knew what fighting I have for your sakes and for them of Laodicia, and for as many as have not seen my person in the flesh," 
Colossians2:2 that their hearts might be comforted and knit together in love, and in all riches of full understanding, for to know the mystery of God the father and of Christ" 
Colossians2:3 in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. 
Colossians2:4 This I say lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. 
Colossians2:5 For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I present with you in the spirit joying and beholding the order that ye keep, and your steadfast faith in Christ." 
Colossians2:6 As ye have therefore received Christ Jesu the Lord, even so walk rooted and built in him," 
Colossians2:7 and steadfast in the faith, as ye have learned: and therein be plenteous in giving thanks." 
Colossians2:8 Beware lest any man come and spoil you thorow philosophy and deceitful vanity, thorow the traditions of men, and ordinances after the world, and not after Christ." 
Colossians2:9 For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily," 
Colossians2:10 and ye are full(complete) in him, which is the head of all rule and power," 
Colossians2:11 in whom also ye are circumcised with circumcision made without hands, by putting off the sinful body off the flesh, thorow the circumcision that is in Christ," 
Colossians2:12 in that ye are buried with him thorow baptism, in whom ye are also risen again thorow faith, that is wrought by the operation of God which raised him from death." 
Colossians2:13 And hath with him quickened you also which were dead in sin in the uncircumcision of your flesh, and hath forgiven our trespasses,(And ye which were dead in sin through the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath he quickened with him and hath forgiven us all our trespasses)" 
Colossians2:14 and hath put out the obligation(handwriting) that was against us, made(contained) in the law written, and that hath he taken out of the way, and hath fastened it on(to) his cross," 
Colossians2:15 and hath spoiled rule and power, and hath made a shew of them openly, and hath triumphed over them in his own person." 
Colossians2:16 Let no man therefore trouble your consciences about meat and drink: or for a piece of an holyday, as the holyday of the new moon or of the Sabbath day," 
Colossians2:17 which are nothing but shadows of things to come: but the body is in Christ. 
Colossians2:18 Let no man make you shoot at a wrong mark, which after his own imagination(choosing) walketh in the humbleness and holiness(spirituality) of angels, things which he never saw: causeless(and is vain) puffed up with his(in his own) fleshly mind," 
Colossians2:19 and holdeth not the head, whereof all the body by joints and couples receiveth nourishment, and is knit together, and increaseth with the increasing(groweth to the greatness) that cometh of God." 
Colossians2:20 Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from doctrine(ordinances) of the world: Why as though ye yet lived in the world, are ye led with traditions of them that say?" 
Colossians2:21 Touch not; Taste not; Handle not: 
Colossians2:22 which all perish with the using of them, and are after(All these things do hurto unto men, because of the abuse of them, which abuse commeth only of) the commandments, and doctrines of men:" 
Colossians2:23 which things have the similitude(a shine) of wisdom in chosen holiness,(thorow chosen spirituality) and humbleness, and in that they spare not the body, and do the flesh no worship unto his need." 
Colossians3:1 If ye be then risen again with Christ seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God." 
Colossians3:2 Set your affection(mind) on things that are above, and not on things which are on the earth." 
Colossians3:3 For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God." 
Colossians3:4 When Christ which is our life shall shew himself, then shall ye also appear with him in glory." 
Colossians3:5 Mortify therefore your members which are on the earth, fornication,(whoredom) uncleanness, unnatural lust, evil concupiscence, and covetousness which is worshipping of idols:" 
Colossians3:6 for which thing's sakes the wrath of God falleth(cometh) on the children of unbelief. 
Colossians3:7 In which things ye walked once,(some time) when ye lived in them." 
Colossians3:8 But now put ye also away from you all things, wrath, fierceness, maliciousness, cursed speaking, filthy speaking out of your mouths." 
Colossians3:9 Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his works,(be put off)" 
Colossians3:10 and have put on the new, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that made him," 
Colossians3:11 where is neither greek(gentile) nor(ner) jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarous or Sithian, bond or free: But Christe is all in all things." 
Colossians3:12 Now therefore as elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering," 
Colossians3:13 forbearing one another, and forgiving one another (if any man have a quarrel to another) even as Christ forgave you, even so do ye." 
Colossians3:14 Above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfectness," 
Colossians3:15 and the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which peace ye are called in one body: and see that ye be thankful." 
Colossians3:16 Let the word of God(Christ) dwell in you plenteously in all wisdom. Teach and exhort your own selves, in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs which have favour with them, singing in your hearts to the Lord." 
Colossians3:17 And all things (whatsoever ye do in word or deed)(work) do in the name of the Lord Jesu, giving thanks to God the father by him." 
Colossians3:18 Wives submit your own selves unto your own husbands, as it is comely in the Lord." 
Colossians3:19 Husbands love your wives and be not bitter unto them. 
Colossians3:20 Children obey your fathers and mothers,(your elders) in all things, for that is well pleasing unto the Lord." 
Colossians3:21 Fathers rate not your children, (to anger) lest they be of a desperate mind." 
Colossians3:22 Servants be obedient unto your bodily masters in all things: not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing God." 
Colossians3:23 And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as though ye did it to the Lord, and not unto men," 
Colossians3:24 remembering(forasmuch as ye know) that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ." 
Colossians3:25 But he that doth wrong shall receive for the wrong that he hath done: for there is no respect of persons. (with God) 
Colossians4:1 Ye masters do unto your servants that which is just and egal,(equal) remembering(seeing ye know) that ye have also a master in heaven." 
Colossians4:2 Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving," 
Colossians4:3 praying also for us that God open unto us the door of utterance, that we may speak the mystery of Christ (wherefore I am also in bonds)" 
Colossians4:4 that I may utter it, as it becometh me to speak." 
Colossians4:5 Walk wisely to(toward) them that are without, and redeem the time." 
Colossians4:6 Let your speech alway have favour with it(be always well savoured) and be salted,(powdered with salt) that ye may know how to answer every man." 
Colossians4:7 The dear brother Tichicos shall tell you of all my business, which is a faithful minister, and fellow servant in the Lord," 
Colossians4:8 whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know how ye do, and might comfort your hearts," 
Colossians4:9 with one Onesimus a faithful, and a beloved brother, which is one of you. They shall shew you of all things which are a doing here." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus my prison fellow saluteth you; And Marcus Barnabas' sister's son: touching whom, ye received commandments. If he come unto you receive him:" 
Colossians4:11 and Jesus which is called Justus, which are of the circumcision. These only are my workfellows unto(helpers in) the kingdom of God, which were unto my consolation." 
Colossians4:12 Epaphras the servant of Christ, which is one of you, saluteth you, and always laboureth fervently for you in prayers that ye may stand perfect, and full in all that is the will of God." 
Colossians4:13 I bear him record that he hath a fervent mind toward(for) you, and toward(for) them of(at) Laodicia and them of Hierapolis." 
Colossians4:14 Dear Lucas the physician greeteth(saluteth) you, and Demas." 
Colossians4:15 Salute the brethren which are of Laodicia, and salute Nymphas, and the congregation which is in his house." 
Colossians4:16 And when the pistel is read of you, make that it be read in the congregation of the Laodicians also: and that ye likewise read the pistel of Laodicia." 
Colossians4:17 And say to Archippus: Take heed to thine(the) office that thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it." 
Colossians4:18 The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace (of oure Lorde Iesu Christ) be with you, Amen. [Here endeth the epistle to the Collossians, Sent from Rome by Tichicus, and Onesimus.]" 
1Thessalonians1:1 Paul Silvanus and Timotheus. Unto the congregation of the Thessalonians, in God the father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with you, and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians1:2 We give God thanks alway(all way) for you all, making mention of you in our prayers" 
1Thessalonians1:3 without ceasing, and call to remembrance your work in the faith, and labour in love and perseverance(and your patience) in the hope of our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God our father:" 
1Thessalonians1:4 because we know brethren beloved of God, how that ye are elect." 
1Thessalonians1:5 For our gospel(gospell) came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and also in the holy ghost and in much certainty, as ye know that(after what manner) we behaved ourselves among you, for your sakes." 
1Thessalonians1:6 And ye counterfeited(became followers of) us, and of the Lord: and received the word in much affliction, with joy of the holy ghost:" 
1Thessalonians1:7 so that ye were an example to all that believe in Macedonia, and Achaia." 
1Thessalonians1:8 For from you sounded(noised) out the word of the Lord, not in Macedonia and in Achaia only: but your faith also which ye have unto God, spread herself abroad in all quarters, so greatly that it needeth not us to speak anything at all:" 
1Thessalonians1:9 for they themselves shew of you what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how ye turned to God from images for to serve the living and true God," 
1Thessalonians1:10 and for to look for his son from heaven, whom he raised from death: I mean Jesus which delivereth us from wrath to come." 
1Thessalonians2:1 For ye yourselves brethren know of our entrance in unto you, how that it was not in vain:" 
1Thessalonians2:2 but even after that we had suffered before and were shamefully entreated at Philippos (as ye well know) then were we bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel(gospell) of God, with much striving." 
1Thessalonians2:3 Our exhortation was not to bring you to error, nor yet to uncleanness, neither was it with guile:" 
1Thessalonians2:4 but as we were allowed of God, that the gospel(gospell) should be committed unto us: even so we speak, not as though we intended to please men, but God, which trieth our hearts." 
1Thessalonians2:5 Neither was our conversation at any time with flattering words (as ye well know) neither in cloaked covetousness,(nor waited for our own profit) God is record:" 
1Thessalonians2:6 neither sought we praise of men, neither of you, nor yet of any other,(wother) when we might have been chargeable, as the apostles of Christ:" 
1Thessalonians2:7 but were tender among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children," 
1Thessalonians2:8 so was our (heartily) affection toward you our good will was to have dealt unto you, not the gospel(gospell) of God only: but also our own souls,(lives) because ye were dear unto us." 
1Thessalonians2:9 Ye remember brethren our labour and travail. For we laboured(wrought) day and night, because we would not be grievous(chargeable) unto any of you, and preached (unto) you the gospel(gospell) of God." 
1Thessalonians2:10 Ye are witnesses, and so is God, how holily and justly (that no man could blame us)(and unblameably) we behaved ourselves among you that believe," 
1Thessalonians2:11 as ye know how that we exhorted and comforted, and besought every one of you, as a father his children," 
1Thessalonians2:12 that ye would walk worthy of the Lord,(God) which hath called you unto his kingdom and glory." 
1Thessalonians2:13 For this cause thank we God without ceasing, because that when ye received of us the word, wherewith God was preached, ye received it not as the word of man: but even as it was in deed,(is of a trueth) the word of God, which worketh in you that believe." 
1Thessalonians2:14 For ye brethren did counterfeit(became followers of) the congregations of God which in Jewry are in Christ Jesu: for ye have suffered like things of your kinsmen, as we our selves have suffered of the jews," 
1Thessalonians2:15 which as they killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, even so have they persecuted us, and God they please not, and are contrary to all men:" 
1Thessalonians2:16 and forbid us to preach(speak) unto the gentiles, that they might be saved, to fulfil their sins: (always) For the wrath of God is come on them, even to(allready unto) the utmost." 
1Thessalonians2:17 Forasmuch brethren as we are kept from you for a season, as concerning the bodily presence but not in the heart, we enforced(have haisted) the more to see you personally with great desire," 
1Thessalonians2:18 and therefore we would have come unto you, I Paul once and again: but Satan withstood us." 
1Thessalonians2:19 For what is our hope or joy, or crown of rejoicing? are not ye it in the presence(sight) of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?" 
1Thessalonians2:20 Yea ye are our glory(praise) and joy. 
1Thessalonians3:1 Wherefore since we could no longer forbear, it pleased us(we thought it good) to remain at Athens alone," 
1Thessalonians3:2 and sent Timotheus our brother and minister of God, and our labour fellow(helper) in the gospel(gospell) of Christ, to stablish you, and to comfort you over your faith," 
1Thessalonians3:3 that no man should be moved in these afflictions.(troubles) For ye yourselves know that we are even appointed thereunto. 
1Thessalonians3:4 For verily when I was with you, I told you before that we should suffer tribulation even as it came to pass, and as ye know." 
1Thessalonians3:5 For this cause, when(seeing) I could no longer forbear, I sent that I might have knowledge of your faith, lest haply the tempter had tempted you, and that our labour had been bestowed in vain." 
1Thessalonians3:6 (But) Now lately when Timotheus came from you unto us and declared to us(shewed us of) your faith, and your love, and how that ye have good remembrance of us always, desiring to see us, as we desire(also long) to see you." 
1Thessalonians3:7 Therefore brethren had I(we) consolation in you, in all our adversity, and necessity through your faith." 
1Thessalonians3:8 For now are we alive if ye stand steadfast in the Lord. 
1Thessalonians3:9 For what thanks can we recompense to God again for you, over all the joy that we joy for your sakes(joy we have concerning you) before our God," 
1Thessalonians3:10 while we night and day pray exceedingly, that we might see you presently, and might fulfil that which is lacking in your faith." 
1Thessalonians3:11 God himself our father, and our Lord Jesus Christ guide our journey unto you:" 
1Thessalonians3:12 and the Lord increase you, and make you flow over in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you," 
1Thessalonians3:13 to stablish(make) your hearts that they might be without ought to be complained on,(stable and unblamable) in holiness before God our father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, with all his saints." 
1Thessalonians4:1 Furthermore we beseech you brethren, and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that ye increase more and more, even as ye have received of us, how ye ought to walk and to please God." 
1Thessalonians4:2 Ye remember(know) what commandments we gave you in the name of our Lord Jesu. (Christ) 
1Thessalonians4:3 For this is the will of God, which is your sanctifying, (even that ye should be holy, and) that ye should abstain from fornication,(whoredom)" 
1Thessalonians4:4 that every one of you should know how to keep his vessel in sanctifying(holiness) and honour," 
1Thessalonians4:5 and not in the lust of concupiscence, as do the heathen, which know not god," 
1Thessalonians4:6 that no man go beyond,(too far) and defraud his brother in bargaining, because the Lord is avenger of all such things: as we told you before time, and testified unto you." 
1Thessalonians4:7 For god hath not called us unto uncleanness: but unto sanctifying.(holiness.) 
1Thessalonians4:8 He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, which hath sent his holy spirit among you." 
1Thessalonians4:9 But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you. For ye are taught of God to love one another." 
1Thessalonians4:10 Yea and that thing verily ye do unto all the brethren, which are thorowout all Macedonia. We beseech you brethren that ye increase, more and more," 
1Thessalonians4:11 and that ye study to be quiet, and to meddle with your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you:" 
1Thessalonians4:12 that ye may behave yourselves(may walk) honestly toward them that are without and that nothing be lacking unto you. 
1Thessalonians4:13 I would not brethren have you ignorant concerning them which are fallen asleep, that ye sorrow not as other do which have no hope." 
1Thessalonians4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died, and rose again: even so them also which sleep by Jesus, will God bring again with him." 
1Thessalonians4:15 And this say we unto you in the word of the Lord, that we which live and are remaining in the coming of the Lord, shall not come yer they, which sleep." 
1Thessalonians4:16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, and the voice of the archangel, and trompe of God. And the dead in Christe shall arise first:" 
1Thessalonians4:17 then shall we which live and remain, be caught up with them also in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord." 
1Thessalonians4:18 Wherefore comfort your selves one another with these words. 
1Thessalonians5:1 Of the times and seasons brethren ye have no need that I write unto you: 
1Thessalonians5:2 for ye your selves know perfectly, that the day of the Lord shall come even as a thief in the night." 
1Thessalonians5:3 When they shall say peace and no danger,(For when they shall say: Tush, It is peace, there is no danger) then cometh on them sudden destruction, as the travailing of a woman(even as the pain of a woman travailing) with child, and they shall not escape." 
1Thessalonians5:4 But ye brethren are not in darkness, that that day should come on you as it were a thief." 
1Thessalonians5:5 Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, neither of darkness." 
1Thessalonians5:6 Therefore let us not sleep as do other: but let us watch and be sober. 
1Thessalonians5:7 For they that sleep, sleep in the night: and they that be drunken, are drunken in the night." 
1Thessalonians5:8 But let us which are of the day be sober, armed with the breast plate of faith and love, and with hope of health,(salvation) as an helmet.(the helmet of hope to salvation)" 
1Thessalonians5:9 For God hath not appointed us unto wrath: but to obtain health(salvation) by the means of our Lord Jesu Christ," 
1Thessalonians5:10 which died for us: that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him." 
1Thessalonians5:11 Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as ye do." 
1Thessalonians5:12 We beseech you brethren, that ye know them which labour among you, and have the oversight of you in the Lord," 
1Thessalonians5:13 and give you exhortation, that ye have them the more in love: For their work's sake, and be at peace with them." 
1Thessalonians5:14 We desire you brethren warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble minded, forbear the weak have continual(be) patience toward all men." 
1Thessalonians5:15 See that none recompense evil for evil unto any man: but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men." 
1Thessalonians5:16 Rejoice ever.(alway) 
1Thessalonians5:17 Pray continually. 
1Thessalonians5:18 In all things give thanks.(be thankful) For this is the will of God in Christ Jesu toward you. 
1Thessalonians5:19 Quench not the spirit," 
1Thessalonians5:20 despise not prophesying. 
1Thessalonians5:21 Examine(Examen)(prove) all things. Reap(and Keep) that which is good. 
1Thessalonians5:22 Abstain from all suspicious thing.(things) 
1Thessalonians5:23 The very God of peace sanctify you thorowout. And I pray God that your whole spirit, soul, and body, be kept faultless(blameless) unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians5:24 Faithful is he, which called you: which will also do it." 
1Thessalonians5:25 Brethren, pray for us." 
1Thessalonians5:26 Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss. 
1Thessalonians5:27 I charge you in(by) the Lord, that this pistel(epistle) be read unto all the wholly(holy) brethren." 
1Thessalonians5:28 The grace of the(our) Lord Jesus Christe be with you. Amen. [The end of the first pistel unto the Thessalonians, written and sent from Athens.]" 
2Thessalonians1:1 Paul, Sylvanus and Timotheus. Unto the congregation of the Thessalonians, which are in God our father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians1:2 Grace be with you and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians1:3 We are bound to thank God always for you brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and every one of you swimmeth in love(the love of everyone of you increaseth) toward another between yourselves," 
2Thessalonians1:4 so that we ourselves rejoice(make our boast) of you in the congregations of God, over(of) your patience and faith in all your persecutions, and tribulations(troubles) that ye suffer:" 
2Thessalonians1:5 which is a token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye are counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer." 
2Thessalonians1:6 It is verily(For it is) a righteous thing with God, to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you:" 
2Thessalonians1:7 and to you which are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall shew himself from heaven, with his mighty angels,(the angels of his power)" 
2Thessalonians1:8 in(and with) flaming fire, rendering(to give) vengeance unto them that know not God, and to them that obey not unto the gospel(gospell) of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
2Thessalonians1:9 which shall be punished with everlasting damnation, from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power," 
2Thessalonians1:10 when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be made marvelous in all them that believe: because our testimony that we had unto you, was believed even the same day that we preached it." 
2Thessalonians1:11 Wherefore we pray always for you that our God make you worthy of the calling, and fulfil all delectation of goodness, and the work of faith, with power:" 
2Thessalonians1:12 that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified(praised) in you, and ye in him, thorow(according to) the grace of our God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:1 We beseech(beseek) you brethren by the coming of our Lord Jesu Christ, and in that we shall assemble unto him," 
2Thessalonians2:2 that ye be not suddenly moved from your mind, and be not troubled, neither by spirit, neither by words, nor yet by letter, which should seem to come from us, as though the day of Christ were at hand." 
2Thessalonians2:3 Let no man deceive you by any means, for the Lord cometh not, except there come a departing first, and that that sinful man(man of sin) be opened, the son of perdition" 
2Thessalonians2:4 which is an adversary, and is exalted above all that is called god, or that is worshipped:(called God or Gods service) so that he shall sit(sitteth as God) in the temple of god, and shew himself as(boasteth himself to be) god.(so that he shall sit as God in temple of god)" 
2Thessalonians2:5 Remember ye not, that when I was yet with you, I told you these things?" 
2Thessalonians2:6 And now ye know what withholdeth: even that he might be uttered at his time. 
2Thessalonians2:7 For already the mystery of iniquity worketh. Only he that holdeth, let him now hold, until it(hit) be taken out of the way,(For the mystery of that iniquity doeth he all ready work which only looketh, till he which now only letteth be taken out of the way)" 
2Thessalonians2:8 and then shall that wicked be uttered, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the appearance of his coming," 
2Thessalonians2:9 even him whose coming is by(after) the working of Satan, with all lying power, signs, and wonders:" 
2Thessalonians2:10 and in all deceivableness of unrighteousness, among them that perish: because they received not the love of the truth,(trueth) that they might have been saved." 
2Thessalonians2:11 And therefore God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe lies:" 
2Thessalonians2:12 that all they might be damned which believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness." 
2Thessalonians2:13 (But) We are bound to give thanks alway to God for you brethren beloved of the Lord, for because that God hath from the beginning chosen you to health,(salvation) thorow sanctifying of the spirit; And thorow believing the truth:(trueth)" 
2Thessalonians2:14 whereunto he called you by our gospel,(gospell) to obtain the glory that cometh of our Lord Jesu Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:15 Therefore brethren stand fast and keep the ordinations,(ordinances) which ye have learned: whether it were by our preaching, or by our pistel:(by epistle)" 
2Thessalonians2:16 Our Lord Jesu Christ himself, and God our father, which hath loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation, and good hope thorow grace," 
2Thessalonians2:17 comfort your hearts, and establish you in all saying,(doctrine) and good doing." 
2Thessalonians3:1 Furthermore brethren pray for us, that the word of God may have free passage, and be glorified, as it is with you:" 
2Thessalonians3:2 and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men. For all men have not faith: 
2Thessalonians3:3 but the Lord is faithful, which shall stablish you, and keep you from evil." 
2Thessalonians3:4 We have confidence thorow(in) the Lord to you ward, that ye both do, and will do, that which we command you." 
2Thessalonians3:5 And the Lord guide your hearts unto the love of God, and patience of Christ." 
2Thessalonians3:6 We require you brethren in the name of our Lord Jesu Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh inordinately, and not after the institution which ye(he) received of us." 
2Thessalonians3:7 Ye yourselves know how ye ought to counterfeit(follow) us: For we behaved not ourselves inordinately among you. 
2Thessalonians3:8 Neither took we bread of any man for nought: but wrought with labour and travail night and day, because we would not be grievous(lest we should be chargeable) to any of you:" 
2Thessalonians3:9 not but that we had authority: but to make ourselves an ensample unto you, to counterfeit(follow) us." 
2Thessalonians3:10 For when we were with you, this we warned you of, that if there were any which would not work, that the same should not eat." 
2Thessalonians3:11 We have heard say no doubt(For we hear say) that there are some which walk among you inordinately, and work not at all, but are busybodies." 
2Thessalonians3:12 Them that are such, we command and exhort in the name of(exhort by) our Lord Jesu Christ, that they work with quietness, and eat their (own) bread." 
2Thessalonians3:13 Brethren be not weary in well doing. 
2Thessalonians3:14 If any man obey not our sayings, send us word of him by a letter: and have no company(have nothing to do) with him, that he may be ashamed:" 
2Thessalonians3:15 And count him not as an enemy: but warn him as a brother. 
2Thessalonians3:16 The very Lord of peace, give you peace always, by all means. The Lord be with you all." 
2Thessalonians3:17 The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand. This is the token in all pistels.(epistles) So I write. 
2Thessalonians3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you all Amen. [Here ends the second epistle of saint Paul to the Thessalonians, Sent from Athens.]" 
1Timothy1:1 Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ, by(according to) the commandment of God our saviour, and of the Lord Jesu(Iesus) Christ, which is our hope." 
1Timothy1:2 Unto Timothy his(my) natural son in the faith. Grace mercy and peace from God our father, and from the Lord Jesu Christ.(Lord Iesus Christ our LORD.)" 
1Timothy1:3 As I besought thee to abide still in Ephesus when I departed into Macedonia, even so do that thou command some that they teach no other wise:" 
1Timothy1:4 neither give heed to fables and genealogies, which are endless, and breed doubts, more than Godly edifying which is by faith:" 
1Timothy1:5 for the end(the chief sum) of the commandment is love that cometh of a pure heart and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned:" 
1Timothy1:6 from the which things, some have erred, and have turned unto vain jangling," 
1Timothy1:7 because they would(willing to) be doctors in(of) the scripture, and yet understand not what they speak, neither whereof they affirm." 
1Timothy1:8 We know that the law is god,(good) if a man use it lawfully," 
1Timothy1:9 understanding this, how that the law is not given unto a righteous man, but unto the unrighteous and disobedient, to the ungodly and to sinners, to unholy and unclean, to murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, to manslayers" 
1Timothy1:10 and whoremongers: to them that defile themselves with mankind: to menstealers: to liars and to perjured, and so forth if there be any other thing that is contrary to wholesome doctrine" 
1Timothy1:11 according to the glorious gospel of the holy God,(the gospell of the glory of the blessed God) which gospel(gospell) is committed unto me." 
1Timothy1:12 And I thank him that hath made me strong in Christ Jesu our Lord:(And i thank Christ Iesus our Lorde which hath made me strong:) for he counted me true, and put me in office," 
1Timothy1:13 when before I was a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and a tyrant. Nevertheless(But) I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly, in(thorow) unbelief:" 
1Timothy1:14 but(Neverthelater) the grace of our Lord was more abundant, with faith and love, which is in Christ Jesu." 
1Timothy1:15 This is a true saying, and by all means worthy to be received, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief:" 
1Timothy1:16 Notwithstanding unto me was mercy given,(for this cause was mercy given unto me)(obtained I mercy) that Jesus Christ should first(might principally) shew on(in) me all long patience, unto the ensample of them which shall in time to come believe on(which should believe in) him unto eternal life." 
1Timothy1:17 So then unto God, King everlasting, immortal, invisible, and wise only, be honour and praise for ever and ever Amen." 
1Timothy1:18 This commandment commit I unto thee son Timotheus, according to the prophecies which in time past were prophesied of thee, that thou in them shouldest fight a good fight," 
1Timothy1:19 having faith and good conscience, which some have put away from them, and as concerning faith have made shipwreck." 
1Timothy1:20 Of whose number is Himeneus, and Alexander, which I have delivered unto Satan, that they might be taught not(no more) to blaspheme." 
1Timothy2:1 I exhort therefore that above all things prayers, supplications, petitions,(intercessions) and giving of thanks, be had for all men:" 
1Timothy2:2 for kings, and for all that are in preeminence,(authority) that we may live a quiet and a peaceable life, in all godliness and honesty." 
1Timothy2:3 For that is good and accepted in the sight of god our saviour," 
1Timothy2:4 which would(will) have all men saved, and (to) come unto the knowledge of the truth." 
1Timothy2:5 For there is one God, and one mediator between God and man, which is(men, namely) the man Christ Jesus," 
1Timothy2:6 which gave himself a ransom for all men, that it should be preached(testified) at his time," 
1Timothy2:7 whereunto I am appointed(ordained) a preacher, and an apostle (I tell the truth in Christ and lie not) being the teacher of the gentiles in faith and verity.(in the trueth)" 
1Timothy2:8 I woll(will) therefore that the men pray every where, lifting up pure hands without wrath, or arguing.(doubting.)" 
1Timothy2:9 Likewise also the women that they array themselves in mannerly(comely) apparel with shamefastness, and honest(discreet) behavior, not with broided hair, other gold, or pearls, or costly array:" 
1Timothy2:10 but with such as becometh women that profess the worshipping of God thorow good works.(profess godliness thorow good works) 
1Timothy2:11 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. 
1Timothy2:12 I suffer not a woman to teach, neither to have authority over the man: but for to be in silence." 
1Timothy2:13 For Adam was first formed, and then Eve." 
1Timothy2:14 Also Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived, and was in(hath brought in the) transgression." 
1Timothy2:15 Notwithstanding they shall be saved thorow bearing of children, if(through bearing of children they shall be saved, so) they continue in the faith and in love, and in sanctifying.(holiness with discretion.)" 
1Timothy3:1 This is a true saying: If a man covet the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work." 
1Timothy3:2 Yea and a bishop must be faultless,(blameless) the husband of one wife, sober, of honest behavior,(discreet) honestly apparelled,(mannerly) harborous, apt to teach," 
1Timothy3:3 not drunken,(not given to much wime) no fighter, not given to filthy lucre: but gentle, abhorring fighting,(strife) abhorring covetousness," 
1Timothy3:4 and one that ruleth his own house honestly, having children under obedience, with all honesty." 
1Timothy3:5 For if a man cannot rule his own house, how shall he care for the congregation of God." 
1Timothy3:6 He may not be a young man,(scholar) lest he swell(be puft up) and fall into the judgment of the evil speaker." 
1Timothy3:7 He must also be well reported of among(have a good report of) them which are without forth, lest he fall into rebuke, and into the snare of the evil speaker." 
1Timothy3:8 Likewise must the deacons(ministers) be honest, not double tongued, not given unto much drinking,(wine) neither unto filthy lucre:" 
1Timothy3:9 but having the mystery of the faith in pure conscience. 
1Timothy3:10 And let them first be proved, and then let them minister, if they be found faultless.(be blameless)" 
1Timothy3:11 Even so must their wives be honest, not evil speakers: but sober, and faithful in all things." 
1Timothy3:12 Let the deacons(ministers) be the husbands of one wife(every one the husband of one wife) and such as rule their children well, and their own households." 
1Timothy3:13 For they that minister well, get themselves good degree, and great liberty in the faith, which is in Christ Jesu." 
1Timothy3:14 These things write I unto thee, trusting to come shortly unto thee." 
1Timothy3:15 And if I come not,(but and if I tarry long) that (then) thou mayst yet have knowledge how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the congregation of the living God, the pillar and ground of truth." 
1Timothy3:16 And without nay great is that mystery of godliness. God was shewed in the flesh, was justified in the spirit, was seen of angels, was preached unto the gentiles, was believed on in earth and received up in glory." 
1Timothy4:1 The spirit speaketh evidently that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, and shall give heed unto spirits of error," 
1Timothy4:2 and devilish doctrine of them which speak false thorow hypocrisy, and have their consciences marked with an hot iron," 
1Timothy4:3 forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with giving thanks, of them which believe, and know the truth," 
1Timothy4:4 for all the creatures of God are good: and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving:" 
1Timothy4:5 For it is sanctified by the word of God, and prayer." 
1Timothy4:6 If thou shalt put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesu Christ which hast been nourished up in the words of the faith, and good doctrine, which doctrine thou hast continually followed." 
1Timothy4:7 But cast away unghostly and old wives' fables. Exercise thyself unto godliness. 
1Timothy4:8 For bodily exercise profiteth little: But godliness is good(profitable) unto all things, as a thing which hath promises of the life that is now, and of the life to come." 
1Timothy4:9 This is a sure saying, and of all parties worthy to be received." 
1Timothy4:10 For therefore we labour and suffer rebuke, because we believe(hope) in the living God, which is the saviour of all men: but specially of those that believe." 
1Timothy4:11 Such things command and teach. 
1Timothy4:12 Let no man despise thy youth: but be unto them that believe, an ensample, in word, in conversation, in love, in spirit, in faith and in pureness." 
1Timothy4:13 Till I come give attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine." 
1Timothy4:14 Despise not(Be not negligent) the gift that is in thee, which was given thee thorow prophecy, and with laying on of the hands of a senior.(an elder.)" 
1Timothy4:15 These things exercise, and give thyself unto them, that all men may see(it may be seen) how thou profitest. (in all things)" 
1Timothy4:16 Take heed unto thyself and unto learning, and continue therein.(in these things) For if thou shalt so do thou shalt save thyself, and them that hear thee." 
1Timothy5:1 Rebuke not a senior:(an elder:) but exhort him as a father, and the younger men as brethren," 
1Timothy5:2 the elder women as mothers, the younger as sisters, with all pureness." 
1Timothy5:3 Honour widows which are true widows. 
1Timothy5:4 If any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to rule their own houses godly, and to recompense their elders. For that is good and acceptable before God." 
1Timothy5:5 She that is a very widow, and friendless,(desolate) putteth her trust in God, and continueth in supplication and prayer night and day:" 
1Timothy5:6 but she that liveth in pleasure, is dead even yet alive." 
1Timothy5:7 And such(these) things command, that they may be without fault.(blame)" 
1Timothy5:8 If there be any(any man) that provideth not for his own, and namely(specially) for them of his household, the same denieth(hath denied) the faith, and is worse than an infidel." 
1Timothy5:9 Let no widow be chosen under threescore(sixty) year old, and such a one as was the wife of one man," 
1Timothy5:10 and well reported of in good works: if she have nourished children,(brought up children well) if she have been liberal to strangers,(harberous) if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have ministered unto them which were in adversity, if she were continually given unto all manner (of) good works." 
1Timothy5:11 The younger widows refuse. For when they have begun to wax wanton, to the dishonour of(against) Christ, then will they marry," 
1Timothy5:12 having damnation, because they have despised(broken) their first faith." 
1Timothy5:13 And also they learn to go(run about) from house to house idle, yea not idle only, but also trifling and busybodies, speaking things which are not comely." 
1Timothy5:14 I will therefore that the younger women marry and bear children, and guide the house, and give none occasion to the adversary to speak evil." 
1Timothy5:15 For many of them are all ready turned back, and are gone after Satan." 
1Timothy5:16 And if any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them minister unto(make provision for) them, and let not the congregation be charged: that it(ye) may have sufficient(enough) for them that are widows in deed." 
1Timothy5:17 The seniors(elders) that rule well are worthy of double honour, most specially they which labour in the word and in teaching." 
1Timothy5:18 For the scripture saith: Thou shalt not muzzle(musell) the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. And the laborer is worthy of his reward. 
1Timothy5:19 Against an senior(elder) receive none accusation: but under two or three witnesses. 
1Timothy5:20 Them that sin rebuke openly(in the presence of all) that other (also) may fear. 
1Timothy5:21 I testify before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without hasty judgment, and do nothing partially." 
1Timothy5:22 Lay hands suddenly on no man neither be partaker of other men's sins: Keep thyself pure. 
1Timothy5:23 Drink no longer water, but use a little wine, for thy stomach's sake, and thine often diseases.(sickness)" 
1Timothy5:24 Some men's sins are open beforehand and go before unto judgement: some men's sins follow after.(but some men's sins shall be manifest hereafter) 
1Timothy5:25 Likewise also good works are manifest beforehand, and they that are otherwise, cannot be hid." 
1Timothy6:1 Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God, and his doctrine be not evil spoken of." 
1Timothy6:2 See that they which have believing masters despise them not because they are brethren: but so much the rather do service, forasmuch as they are believing and beloved and partakers of the benefit.(benefits) These things teach and exhort." 
1Timothy6:3 If any man teach otherwise, and is not content with(agreeth not unto) the wholesome words of our Lord Jesu Christ, and with the doctrine of godliness," 
1Timothy6:4 he is puffed(puft) up and knoweth nothing: but wasteth his brains about questions, and strife of words, whereof spring envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings" 
1Timothy6:5 superfluous disputings in scowls(and vain disputations) of men with corrupt minds, and destitute(robbed) of the truth, which think that lucre is godliness. From such separate thyself." 
1Timothy6:6 Godliness is great riches, if a man be content with that he hath." 
1Timothy6:7 For we brought nothing into the world, and it is a plain case that we can carry nothing out." 
1Timothy6:8 When we have food and raiment, let us therewith be content." 
1Timothy6:9 They that will be rich, fall into temptation and snares, (of the devil) and into many foolish and noisome lusts, which drown men in perdition,(damnation) and destruction." 
1Timothy6:10 For covetousness is the root(rote) of all evil, which while some lusted after, they erred from the faith, and tangled themselves with many sorrows." 
1Timothy6:11 But thou which art the man of God, fly such things. Follow righteousness, godliness, (faith) love, patience, (and) meekness." 
1Timothy6:12 Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hand on eternal life, whereunto thou art called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses." 
1Timothy6:13 I give thee charge in the sight of God, which quickeneth all things, and before Jesus Christ, which under Pontius Pilate witnessed a good witnessing," 
1Timothy6:14 that thou keep the commandment (,and be) without spot, so that no man find fault with thee,(unrebukable)(unreprovable) until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Timothy6:15 which appearing (when the time is come) he shall shew that is blessed and mighty only, King of Kings, and Lord of lords," 
1Timothy6:16 which only hath immortality, and dwelleth in light that no man can obtain,(attayne) whom never man saw, neither can see: unto whom be honour and rule everlasting Amen." 
1Timothy6:17 Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not exceeding wise,(proud) and that they trust not in the uncertain riches, but in the living God, which giveth us abundantly all things to enjoy them," 
1Timothy6:18 and that they do good and be rich in good works, and ready to give and to distribute,(give and distribute with a good will)" 
1Timothy6:19 laying up in store for themselves, a good foundation against the time to come, that they may obtain eternal life." 
1Timothy6:20 O Timothy save that which is given thee to keep,(keep that which is committed unto thee) and avoid unghostly vanities of voices,(vain words) and oppositions of science falsely so called," 
1Timothy6:21 which science, while some professed, they have erred as concerning the faith. Grace be with thee Amen. [Here ends the first epistle unto Timothy, Sent from Laodicea, which is the chiefest city of Phrigia Pacaciana.]" 
2Timothy1:1 Paul an apostle of Jesu Christ, by the will of God, to preach the promise of life, which life is in Christ Jesu." 
2Timothy1:2 To Timothy his(my) beloved son. Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the father, and from Jesus(Iesu) Christ our Lord." 
2Timothy1:3 I thank God, whom I serve from mine elders with pure conscience, that without ceasing I make mention of thee in my prayers night and day," 
2Timothy1:4 desiring(and long) to see thee, mindful of(when i remember) thy tears: so that I am filled with joy," 
2Timothy1:5 when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunica: and am assured that it dwelleth in thee also." 
2Timothy1:6 Wherefore I warn thee that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee, by the putting on of my hands." 
2Timothy1:7 For God hath not given to us the spirit of fear: but of power, and of love, and of honest behavior.(soberness of mind.)(right understanding)" 
2Timothy1:8 Be not ashamed to testify our Lord, neither be ashamed of me, which am bound for his sake:(his prisoner) but suffer (thou) adversity with the gospel(gospell) also thorow(according to) the power of God," 
2Timothy1:9 which saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not after(according to) our deeds, but for(according) his (own) purpose and grace, which grace was given us thorow Christ Jesu before the world was," 
2Timothy1:10 but is now declared openly by the appearing of our saviour Jesu Christ, which hath put away death,(taken away the power of death) and hath brought life and immortality unto light thorow the gospel,(gospell)" 
2Timothy1:11 whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the gentiles:" 
2Timothy1:12 for the which cause I also suffer this.(these things) Nevertheless I am not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and am sure that he is able keep that which I have committed to his keeping against that day." 
2Timothy1:13 See thou have the example of the wholesome words which thou heardest of me, in(concerning) faith and love which is in Jesu Christ." 
2Timothy1:14 That (that) good thing which was committed to thy keeping, keep in(This hye charge keep thou thorow) the holy ghost which dwelleth in us." 
2Timothy1:15 This thou knowest how that all they which are in Asia be turned from me. Of which sort are Phigellos and Hermogenes. 
2Timothy1:16 The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:" 
2Timothy1:17 but when he was at Rome he sought me out very diligently, and found me." 
2Timothy1:18 The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy with the Lord at that day. And in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus thou knowest very well. 
2Timothy2:1 Thou therefore my son be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesu. 
2Timothy2:2 And what things thou hast heard of me, many bearing witness, the same deliver to(commit unto) faithful men, which are apt to teach other.(others)" 
2Timothy2:3 Thou therefore suffer affliction as a good soldier of Jesu Christ. 
2Timothy2:4 No man that warreth, entangleth himself with worldly business, and that because he would please him that hath chosen him to be a soldier." 
2Timothy2:5 And though a man strive for a mastery, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully." 
2Timothy2:6 The husbandman that laboureth must first receive of(enjoy) the fruits. 
2Timothy2:7 Consider what I say. The Lord give thee understanding in all things. 
2Timothy2:8 Remember that Jesus Christ being of the seed of David, rose again from death according to my gospel,(gospell)" 
2Timothy2:9 wherein I suffer trouble as an evil doer, even unto bonds. But the word of God was not bound." 
2Timothy2:10 Herefore I suffer all things, for the elects' sakes, that they might also obtain that health(salvation) which is in Christ Jesu, with eternal glory." 
2Timothy2:11 It is a true saying: If we be dead with him, we also shall live with him;" 
2Timothy2:12 If we be patient, we shall also reign with him; If we deny him, he also shall deny us;" 
2Timothy2:13 If we believe not, yet abideth he faithful; He cannot deny himself." 
2Timothy2:14 Of these things put them in remembrance, and testify before the Lord, that they strive not about words, which is to no profit, but to pervert the hearers." 
2Timothy2:15 Study to shew thyself laudable unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, dividing the word of truth justly." 
2Timothy2:16 Unghostly and vain voices pass over. For they shall increase unto greater ungodliness,(As for unghostly and vain talkings, eschew them: for they help much to ungodliness)" 
2Timothy2:17 and their words shall fret even(their word fretteth) as doth a canker:(cancre) of whose number is Hymeneos and Philetos," 
2Timothy2:18 which as concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already,(all ready) and do destroy the faith of divers persons." 
2Timothy2:19 But the sure ground of God remaineth,(stondeth fast) and hath this seal: the Lord knoweth them that are his, and let every man that calleth on the name of Christ, depart from iniquity." 
2Timothy2:20 Notwithstanding in a great house are not only vessels of gold and of silver: but also of wood and of earth: Some for honour, and some unto dishonour." 
2Timothy2:21 (But) If a man purge himself from such fellows, he shall be a vessel sanctified unto honour meet for the Lord, and prepared unto all good works." 
2Timothy2:22 Lusts of youth avoid, and follow righteousness, faith, love, and peace, with them that call on the Lord with pure heart." 
2Timothy2:23 Foolish and unlearned questions put from thee, remembering(As for foolish questions and such as teach not, put them from thee: for thou knowest) that they do but make(gender) strife." 
2Timothy2:24 But the servant of the Lord must not(ought not to) strive: but must be peaceable unto all men,(but to be gentle unto every man) and ready(apt) to teach," 
2Timothy2:25 and one that can suffer(forbear) the evil in meekness, and can inform them that resist, (the truth) if that God at any time will give them repentance for to know the truth:" 
2Timothy2:26 that they may wake out of sleep again, out of(come to them selves again out off)(to turn again from) the snare of the devil, which are now taken(holden in prison) of him at his will." 
2Timothy3:1 This understand,(But this shalt thou know) that in the last days shall come parlous times:" 
2Timothy3:2 For the men shall be lovers of their own selves,(men which shall hold of them selves) covetous, boasters, proud, cursed speakers, disobedient to father and mother,(their elders) unthankful, unholy," 
2Timothy3:3 churlish,(unkind, trucebreakers) stubborn, false accusers, rioters, fierce, despisers of them which are good," 
2Timothy3:4 traitors, heady, high minded, greedy upon voluptuousness more than the lovers of God," 
2Timothy3:5 having a similitude(a shine) of godly living, but have denied(but denying) the power there of.(thereof:) Such abhor.(And such avoid)" 
2Timothy3:6 For of this sort are they which enter into houses,(from house to house) and bring into bondage women laden with sin, which women are led of(with) divers lusts," 
2Timothy3:7 ever learning, and never able to come unto the knowledge of the truth." 
2Timothy3:8 As Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, even so do these resist the truth, men they are of corrupt minds, and lewd as concerning the faith:" 
2Timothy3:9 but they shall prevail no longer. For their madness shall be uttered(foolishness shall be manifest) unto all men as theirs was: 
2Timothy3:10 but thou hast seen the experience of my doctrine, ordinance,(fashion of living) purpose, faith, long suffering, love, patience," 
2Timothy3:11 persecutions, and afflictions which happened unto me at Antioche, at Iconium, and at Lystra: which persecutions I suffered patiently; And from them all the Lord delivered me." 
2Timothy3:12 Yea and all that will live godly in Christ Jesu, must suffer persecutions." 
2Timothy3:13 But the evil men and deceivers, shall wax worse and worse, while they deceive, and are deceived themselves.(deceiving and being deceived)" 
2Timothy3:14 But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned, which also were committed unto thee seeing thou knowest of whom thou hast learned them." 
2Timothy3:15 And forasmuch also as thou hast known holy scripture of a child, which(the same) is able to make thee wise unto health(salvation) thorow (the) faith, which is in Christ Jesu." 
2Timothy3:16 For all scripture given by inspiration of God, is profitable to teach, to improve, to inform,(amend) and to instruct in righteousness," 
2Timothy3:17 that the man of God may be perfect, and prepared unto all good works." 
2Timothy4:1 I testify therefore before God, and before the Lord Jesu Christ, which shall judge quick and dead(the living and the deed) at his appearing in his kingdom," 
2Timothy4:2 preach the word, be fervent, be it in season, or out of season. Improve, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering. (and doctrine)" 
2Timothy4:3 For the time will come, when they will not suffer wholesome doctrine: but after their own lusts shall they (whose ears itch) get them an heap of teachers," 
2Timothy4:4 and shall turn their ears from the truth, and shall be given unto fables:" 
2Timothy4:5 But watch thou in all things, and suffer adversity, and do the work of an evangelist,(preacher of the Gospell) fulfil thine office unto the utmost. (Be sober.)" 
2Timothy4:6 For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departing is at hand." 
2Timothy4:7 I have fought a good fight, and have fulfilled my course, and have kept the faith." 
2Timothy4:8 From henceforth is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord that is a righteous judge shall give me at that day: not to me only: but unto all them that love his coming." 
2Timothy4:9 Make speed to come unto me at once. 
2Timothy4:10 For Demas hath left me, and hath loved(and loveth) this present world, and is departed into Thessalonica. Crescens is gone to Galatia, and Titus unto Dalmacea." 
2Timothy4:10 For Demas hath left me, and hath loved(and loveth) this present world, and is departed into Thessalonica. Crescens is gone to Galatia, and Titus unto Dalmacea." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Lucas is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is necessary unto me for to minister.(profitable to the ministration)" 
2Timothy4:11 Only Lucas is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is necessary unto me for to minister.(profitable to the ministration)" 
2Timothy4:12 And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus. 
2Timothy4:13 The cloak that I left at Troada with Carpus when thou comest bring with thee, and the books, but specially the parchment." 
2Timothy4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil, the Lord reward him according to his deeds," 
2Timothy4:15 of whom be thou ware also. For he withstood our preaching(words) sore. 
2Timothy4:16 At my first answering for myself, no man assisted me, but all forsook me. I pray God, that it may not be laid to their charges:" 
2Timothy4:17 notwithstanding the Lord assisted(stood by) me, and strengthed me, that by me the preaching should be fulfilled to the utmost and that all the gentiles should hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion." 
2Timothy4:18 And the Lord shall deliver me from all evil doing, and shall keep me unto his heavenly kingdom. To whom be praise for ever and ever Amen." 
2Timothy4:19 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus." 
2Timothy4:20 Erastus abode at Corinthum. Trophimos I left at Miletum sick. 
2Timothy4:21 Make speed to come before winter. Eubolus greeteth(saluteth) thee, and Pudes, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren." 
2Timothy4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you Amen. [The end of the second pistel unto Timothy, written from Rome when Paul was presented the second time up, before the Emperor Nero.]" 
Titus1:1 Paul the servant of God and an apostle of Jesu Christ, to preach the faith of God's(goddis) elect, and the knowledge of that truth,(the truth, which leadeth unto godliness)" 
Titus1:2 which truth is in serving God in hope of eternal life,(which is after godliness upon the hope of eternal life,) which life God cannot lie, hath promised before the world began:" 
Titus1:3 but hath at the time appointed opened his word by preaching,(but hath opened his word at the time appointed thorow preaching) which preaching is committed unto me, by(according to) the commandment of God our saviour." 
Titus1:4 To Titus his natural son in(after) the common faith. Grace mercy and peace from God the father, and from the Lord Jesu Christ our saviour." 
Titus1:5 For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest perform that which was lacking and shouldest ordain seniors(elders) in every city as I appointed thee." 
Titus1:6 If any be such as no man can complain on,(faultless)(blameless) the husband of one wife, having faithful children, which are not slandered of riot, neither are disobedient." 
Titus1:7 For a bishop must be such as no man can complain on,(faultless)(blameless) as it be cometh the minister of God(as the steward of God) not stubborn,(not willfull) not angry, no drunkard,(not given to much wine) no fighter, not given to filthy lucre:" 
Titus1:8 but harborous, one that loveth goodness, (prudent) of honest behavior,(sober minded) righteous, holy temperate," 
Titus1:9 and such as cleaveth unto the true word of doctrine, that he may be able to exhort with wholesome learning, and to improve them that say against it." 
Titus1:10 For there are many disobedient and talkers of vanity, and deceivers of minds, namely they of the circumcision," 
Titus1:11 whose mouths must be stopped, which pervert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, because of filthy lucre." 
Titus1:12 One being of themselves, which was a poet of their own said:(even their own prophit) The Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and slow bellies." 
Titus1:13 This witness is true, wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith," 
Titus1:14 and not taking heed to(unto) jews fables, and commandments of men, which(that) turn(turn them away) from the truth." 
Titus1:15 Unto the pure,(clean) are all things pure: but unto them that are defiled, and unbelieving, is nothing pure:(to the unclean and unbelievers, there is nothing clean) but even the very minds and consciences of them are defiled." 
Titus1:16 They confess that they know God: but with (the) deeds they deny him and are abominable, and disobedient, and unto all good works discommendable.(unmete to all good works)" 
Titus2:1 But speak thou that which becometh wholesome learning: 
Titus2:2 That the(ye) elder men be sober, honest, discreet, sound in the faith, in love and in patience." 
Titus2:3 And the elder women likewise that they be in such raiment,(that they shew them selves) as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much drinking,(not given to much winte) but teachers of honest things," 
Titus2:4 that they nurture the young women(to make the young women soberminded)(enform the young women to be sober minded) to love their husbands, to love their children," 
Titus2:5 to be of honest behaviour,(discreet) chaste, housewifely, good, and obedient unto their own husbands, that the word of God be not evil spoken of." 
Titus2:6 Young men likewise exhort that they be of honest manners.(sober minded.) 
Titus2:7 Above all things shew thyself an ensample of good works in the doctrine, shew uncorruption,(with uncorrupt doctrine with) honesty," 
Titus2:8 and (with) the wholesome word which cannot be rebuked, that he which withstandeth may be ashamed, having no thing in you that he may dispraise." 
Titus2:9 The servants exhort to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please in all things, not answering again," 
Titus2:10 neither be pickers, but that they shew all good faithfulness, that they may do worship to the doctrine of God our saviour in all things." 
Titus2:11 For the grace of God, that bringeth health(salvation) unto all men, hath appeared" 
Titus2:12 and teacheth us that we should deny ungodliness and worldly lusts, and that we should live honestly,(sober minded)(discreetly) righteously, and godly in this present world," 
Titus2:13 looking for that blessed hope and glorious appearing of the mighty God,(the glory of the great God) and of our saviour Jesu Christ:" 
Titus2:14 which gave himself for us, to redeem us from all unrighteousness, and to purge us(us to be) a peculiar people unto himself, fervently given unto good works." 
Titus2:15 These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke, with all commanding.(earnest) See that no man despise thee." 
Titus3:1 Warn them that they submit themselves to rule and power, to obey the officers,(hyer authority) that they be prompt(ready) unto all good works," 
Titus3:2 that they speak evil of no man, that they be no fighters,(strivers) but soft, shewing all meekness unto all men." 
Titus3:3 For we ourselves also were in times past, unwise, disobedient, deceived,(in error) in danger to lusts,(serving lusts) and to divers manners of voluptuousness, living in maliciousness and envy, full of hate, hating one another." 
Titus3:4 But after that the kindness and love of our saviour (God) to man ward appeared," 
Titus3:5 not of(for) the deeds of righteousness which we wrought, but of(after) his mercy, he saved us, by the fountain of the new birth, and with the renewing of the holy ghost," 
Titus3:6 which he shed on us abundantly, thorow Jesus Christ our saviour," 
Titus3:7 that we once justified(being made righteous) by his grace, should be heirs of eternal life, thorow(according to) hope." 
Titus3:8 This is a true saying. Of these things I would thou shouldest certify,(speak earnestly) that they which believe God, might be studious(diligent) to go forward(to excell) in good works. These things are good and profitable unto men." 
Titus3:9 Foolish questions, and genealogies, and brawlings and strife about the law avoid, for they are unprofitable, and superfluous.(vain)" 
Titus3:10 A man that is the author(auctor) of sects,(A man that is given to heresy) after the first and the second admonition(monition) avoid," 
Titus3:11 remembering(and know) that he that is such, is perverted, and sinneth, even damned by his own judgement." 
Titus3:12 When I shall send Artemas unto thee or Tichicus be diligent(make speed) to come to me unto Nichopolis. For I have determined there to winter. 
Titus3:13 Bring Zenas the lawyer(the Scribe) and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be lacking unto them." 
Titus3:14 And let ours also learn to excel in good works as far forth as need requireth, that they be not unfruitful." 
Titus3:15 All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all, Amen. [Here ends the epistle of saint Paul the Apostle unto Titus Written from Nichopolis a city of Macedonia.]" 
Philemon1:1 Paul the prisoner of Jesu Christ, and brother Timotheus. Unto Philemon the beloved, and our helper," 
Philemon1:2 and to the beloved Appia, and to Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the congregation of thy house." 
Philemon1:3 Grace be with you and peace, from God our father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Philemon1:4 I thank my God always making mention always of thee in my prayers," 
Philemon1:5 when(for so much as) I hear of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesu, and toward all saints:" 
Philemon1:6 so that the fellowship that thou hast in the faith is fruitful thorow knowledge of all good things,(worke) which are in you by Jesus Christ." 
Philemon1:7 And we have great joy and consolation over thy love: For by thee brother, the saints' hearts are comforted.(the saints are heartily refreshed)" 
Philemon1:8 Wherefore though I be bold(I have great boldness) in Christ to enjoin(command) thee, that which becometh thee:" 
Philemon1:9 yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee,(beseek ye) though I be as I am, even Paul aged, and now in bonds for Jesu Christ's(Iesu Christes) sake." 
Philemon1:10 I beseech(beseek) thee for my son Onesimus, whom I begat(have begotten) in my bonds," 
Philemon1:11 which in time passed was to thee unprofitable: but now profitable both to thee and also to me," 
Philemon1:12 whom I have sent home again. Thou therefore receive him, that is to say mine own bowels," 
Philemon1:13 whom I would fain have retained(For I would have kept him still) with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel.(gospell)" 
Philemon1:14 Nevertheless, without thy mind, would I do nothing, that that(yt) good which springeth of thee should not be as it were of necessity,(which thou doest, should not be of compulsion) but willingly." 
Philemon1:15 Haply he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever," 
Philemon1:16 not now as a servant: but above a servant, I mean(even) a brother beloved, specially to me: but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and also in the Lord?" 
Philemon1:17 If thou count me a fellow,(hold me for thy companion) receive him(him than even) as myself." 
Philemon1:18 If he have hurt thee or oweth thee ought, that lay to my charge." 
Philemon1:19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand. I will recompense it. So that I do not say to thee how that thou owest unto me even thine own self. 
Philemon1:20 Even so brother, let me enjoy thee in the Lord. Comfort my bowels(refresh thou my heart) in the Lord." 
Philemon1:21 Trusting in thine obedience, I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt do more than I say for." 
Philemon1:22 Moreover prepare me lodging: for I trust(hope that) thorow the help of your prayers, I shall be given unto you." 
Philemon1:23 There salute thee, Epaphras my fellow prisoner in Christe Jesu;" 
Philemon1:24 Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my helpers." 
Philemon1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesu Christ be with your spirits, Amen. [This ends the epistle of saint Paul the Apostle to Philemon, Sent from Rome by Onesimus a servant.]" 
Hebrews1:1 God in time past diversely and many ways, spake unto the fathers by prophets:" 
Hebrews1:2 but in these last days he hath spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath made heir of all things: by whom also he made the world." 
Hebrews1:3 Which son being the brightness of his glory, and very image of his substance, bearing up all things with the word of his power, hath in his own person purged our sins, and is sitten on the right hand of the majesty on high," 
Hebrews1:4 and is more excellent than the angels, inasmuch as he hath by inheritance obtained an excellenter(more excellent) name then have they." 
Hebrews1:5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time: Thou art my son, this day begat I(I begotten) thee? And again: I will be his father, and he shall be my son." 
Hebrews1:6 And again when he bringeth in the first begotten son in (to) the world, he saith: And all the angels of God shall worship him." 
Hebrews1:7 And unto(of) the angels he saith: He maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers flames of fire." 
Hebrews1:8 But unto the son he saith: God thy seat shall be(thy seat endureth) for ever, and ever. The sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre." 
Hebrews1:9 Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity: Wherefore hath God, which is thy God,(hath) anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows." 
Hebrews1:10 And thou Lord in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth: And the heavens are the works of thy hands. 
Hebrews1:11 They shall perish, but thou shalt endure. They all shall wax old as doth a garment:" 
Hebrews1:12 and as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same,(but thou arte all wayes) and thy years shall not fail." 
Hebrews1:13 Unto which of the angels said he at any time? Sit on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. 
Hebrews1:14 Are they not all spirits to do service,(ministering spirits) sent for to minister for their sakes, which shall be heirs of health?(salvation?)" 
Hebrews2:1 Wherefore we ought much more to attend unto those(to give the more heed to the) things which we have heard, lest we perish." 
Hebrews2:2 For if the word which was spoken by angels was steadfast: and(so that) every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense to reward: 
Hebrews2:3 how shall we escape if we despise so great health?(salvation) which at the first began to be preached of(by) the Lord himself, and after ward was confirmed unto us ward,(upon us) by them that heard it;" 
Hebrews2:4 God bearing witness thereto, both with signs(tokens) and wonders also, and with divers miracles,(powers) and gifts of the holy ghost, according to his own will." 
Hebrews2:5 He hath not unto the angels put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak:" 
Hebrews2:6 but one in a certain place witnessed, saying: What is man, that thou art mindful of him: other the son of man, that thou visitest him?(What is man, that thou art mindful of him?)" 
Hebrews2:7 After thou hadst for a season made him lower than the angels: thou crownedst him with honour and glory, and hast set him above the works of thy hands." 
Hebrews2:8 Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. In that he put all things under him, he left nothing that is not put under him." 
Hebrews2:9 Nevertheless we yet see not all things subdued unto him: but that Jesus which for a season was made less than the angels, we see thorow the punishment of death crowned with glory and honour:(but him that was made less than the angels: we see that it was Iesus, which is crowned with glory and honour for the suffering of death:) that he by the grace of God, should taste of death for all men." 
Hebrews2:10 For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, after that he had brought many sons(children) unto glory, that he should make the Lord of their health(salvation) perfect thorow afflictions:(sufering.)" 
Hebrews2:11 Forasmuch as he which(that) sanctifieth, and they which are sanctified, are all of one. For which cause's sake he is not ashamed to call them brethren" 
Hebrews2:12 saying: I will declare thy name unto my brethren, and in the midst(middes) of the congregation will I praise thee." 
Hebrews2:13 And again: I will put my trust in him. And again: behold here am I and the(my) children which God hath given me. 
Hebrews2:14 Forasmuch then as the children were partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself like wise took part with them, for to put down thorow death him that(that he thorow death, might take away the power of him, which) had lordship over death that is to say the devil." 
Hebrews2:15 And that he might deliver them which thorow fear of death all their life time were in danger of bondage. 
Hebrews2:16 For he in no place taketh on him the angels: but the seed of Abraham taketh he on him. 
Hebrews2:17 Wherefore in all things it became him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be merciful, and a faithful high priest in things concerning God, for to purge the people's sins.(to make agreement for the sins of the people)" 
Hebrews2:18 For in that he himself suffered, and was tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted." 
Hebrews3:1 Wherefore wholy(Therefore holy) brethren, partakers of the celestial(heavenly) calling,(callings) consider the Ambassador and High Priest of our profession Christ Jesus," 
Hebrews3:2 being faithful to him that sent him,(ordained him)(which was faithful to him that made him) even as was Moses in all his house." 
Hebrews3:3 And(yet was) this man was counted worthy of more glory(greater honour) than Moses: Inasmuch as he which hath prepared the house, hath most honour in the house.(then the house it self)" 
Hebrews3:4 Every house is prepared of some man. But he that ordained all things is God. 
Hebrews3:5 And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a minister, to bear witness of those things which should be spoken afterward." 
Hebrews3:6 But Christ as a son hath rule over the house, whose house we are, if we keep stedfast(so that we hold fast the) confidence and rejoicing in the faith unto the end.(and the rejoycing of that hope, unto the end.)" 
Hebrews3:7 Wherefore as the holy ghost saith: today if ye shall hear his voice," 
Hebrews3:8 harden not your hearts, as when ye provoked in time(after the rebellion in the day) of temptation in the wilderness," 
Hebrews3:9 where your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty year long." 
Hebrews3:10 Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said: They ever err in their hearts: they verily have not known my ways," 
Hebrews3:11 so that I sware in my wrath, that they should not enter into my rest." 
Hebrews3:12 Take heed brethren that there be in none of you an evil heart, in unbelief, that he should depart from the living God:" 
Hebrews3:13 but exhort one another daily, while it is called today, lest any of you wax hard hearted, and be deceived with sin.(thorow the deceitfulness of sin.)" 
Hebrews3:14 We are partakers of Christ, so that(if) we keep sure unto the end the beginning of the substance,(the first substance,)" 
Hebrews3:15 so long as it is said: today if ye hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as when ye provoked.(rebelled.)" 
Hebrews3:16 For some, when they heard, provoked:(rebelled) but(howbeit) not all that came out of Egypt under Moses." 
Hebrews3:17 But with whom was he displeased forty years? was he not displeased with them that sinned: whose bodies(carcasses) were overthrown in the desert?(wilderness) 
Hebrews3:18 To whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest: but unto them that believed not? 
Hebrews3:19 And we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief." 
Hebrews4:1 Let us fear therefore lest any of us forsaking the promise of entering into his rest, should seem to come behind." 
Hebrews4:2 For unto us was it declared, as well as unto them. But it profited not(preaching helped not) them that they heard the word, because they which heard it coupled it not with faith.(believed it not)" 
Hebrews4:3 (But) We which have believed, do enter into his rest, as contrary wise(contrariwise) he said to the other: as I have sworn in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. And that spake he verily long after that the works were made, from(and) the foundation of the world laid.(works from the beginning of the world were made)" 
Hebrews4:4 For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day, on this wise: And God did rest(rested on) the seventh day from all his works." 
Hebrews4:5 And in this place again: They shall not come into my rest. 
Hebrews4:6 Seeing therefore it followeth that some must enter thereinto, and they to whom it was first preached, entered not therein for unbelief's sake." 
Hebrews4:7 Again he appointeth in David a certain present day after so long a time, saying as it is rehearsed: this day if ye hear his voice, be not hard hearted." 
Hebrews4:8 For if Josue(Iosue) had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day." 
Hebrews4:9 There remaineth therefore yet a rest to the people of God. 
Hebrews4:10 For he that is entered into his rest doth cease from his own works, as God did from his." 
Hebrews4:11 Let us study(make haist) therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall(faule) into such an(after the same) ensample of(,into) unbelief:" 
Hebrews4:12 for the word of God is quick, and mighty in operation, and sharper than any two edged sword: and entereth through, even unto the dividing a sunder of the soul and the spirit and of the joints, and the mary: and judgeth the thoughts and the intents of the heart." 
Hebrews4:13 Neither is there any creature invisible in the sight of it: but(.For) all things are naked and bare unto the eyes of him, of whom we speak." 
Hebrews4:14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest which is entered into heaven (I mean Jesus the son of God) let us keep(hold) our profession. (of our hope) 
Hebrews4:15 For we have not an high priest, which cannot have compassion on our infirmities: but was in all points tempted, in like manner:(as we are:) but yet without sin." 
Hebrews4:16 Let us therefore go boldly unto the seat of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace to help in time of need." 
Hebrews5:1 For every high priest that is taken from among men, is ordained for men, in things pertaining to God: to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins:" 
Hebrews5:2 which can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the high way, because that he himself also is compassed with infirmity:" 
Hebrews5:3 For the which infirmities sake, he is bound (bond) to offer for sins, as well for his own part, as for the peoples." 
Hebrews5:4 (And) No man taketh honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron." 
Hebrews5:5 Even so likewise Christ honored not himself, that he might be the high priest: but he glorified him that said unto him:(Christ glorified not him self, to be made the hye prest: but he that said unto him) thou art my son, this day begat I thee.(have I begotten thee)" 
Hebrews5:6 As he also in another place speaketh:(sayeth) Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedech. 
Hebrews5:7 Which in the days of his flesh, did offer up prayers and supplications, with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death: and was also heard, be cause he had God in reverence.(honour)(because of his godliness.)" 
Hebrews5:8 And though he were God's son,(sonne of God) yet learned he obedience, by those things which he suffered," 
Hebrews5:9 and was made perfect, and the cause of eternal(everlasting) health(salvation) unto all them that obey him:" 
Hebrews5:10 and is called of God the(an) high priest,(hye priest) after the order of Melchisedech." 
Hebrews5:11 Whereof we have many things to say which are hard to be uttered: because ye are dull of hearing. 
Hebrews5:12 For when as concerning the time, ye ought to be teachers, yet have ye need again that we teach you the first principles(precepts) of the word of God: and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat:" 
Hebrews5:13 For every man that is fed with milk is inexpert in the word of righteousness: For he is but a babe. 
Hebrews5:14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are perfect, which thorow custom have their wits exercised, to judge both good and evil also." 
Hebrews6:1 Wherefore let us leave the doctrine pertaining to the beginning of a Christian man, and let us go unto perfection, and now no more lay the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God," 
Hebrews6:2 of baptism, of doctrine, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection from death,(resurrection of the dead) and of eternal judgement." 
Hebrews6:3 And so will we do, if God permit." 
Hebrews6:4 For it is not possible that they, which were once lighted, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were become partakers of the holy ghost," 
Hebrews6:5 and have tasted of the good word of God, and of the power of the world to come:" 
Hebrews6:6 if they fall,(faule away) should be renewed again unto repentance: Forasmuch as they have (as concerning them selves) crucified the son of God afresh, making a mock of him." 
Hebrews6:7 For that earth which drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them that dress it, receiveth blessing of God:" 
Hebrews6:8 but that ground, which beareth thorns and briars, is reproved,(and thistles, is nothing worth.) and is nigh unto cursing: whose end is to be burned." 
Hebrews6:9 Nevertheless dear friends,(ye dearly beloved) we trust to see better of you, and things which accompany health,(salvation)(and that salvation is nyer) though we thus speak." 
Hebrews6:10 For God is not unrighteous that he should forget your work, and labour that proceedeth of love, which love shewed in his name, which have ministered unto the saints, and yet minister." 
Hebrews6:11 Yea, and we desire that every one of you shew the same diligence, to the increase of the faith,(to the establishing of hope) even unto the end:" 
Hebrews6:12 that ye faint not, but counterfeit(follow) them, which thorow faith and patience inherit the promises." 
Hebrews6:13 For when God made promise to Abraham, because he had no greater thing to swear by, he sware by himself," 
Hebrews6:14 saying: Surely I will bless thee, and multiply thee in deed." 
Hebrews6:15 And so after that he had tarried a long time, he enjoyed(so he abode patiently, and obtained) the promises." 
Hebrews6:16 Men verily swear by him that is greater than themselves; And an oath to confirm the thing, is among them an end of all strife." 
Hebrews6:17 So God willing very abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise, the stableness of his counsel,(counsayle) he added an oath," 
Hebrews6:18 that by two immutable things (in which it was unpossible that God should lie) we might have perfect(a strong) consolation, which have(even we which are) fled, for to hold fast the hope that is set before our faces,(before us)" 
Hebrews6:19 which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast. Which hope also entereth in, into those things which are within the veil," 
Hebrews6:20 whither the forerunner is for us entered in, I mean Jesus that is made an high priest for ever, after the order of Melchisedech." 
Hebrews7:1 This Melchisedech king of Salem (which being priest of the most high(hye) God, met Abraham, as he returned again from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him:" 
Hebrews7:2 to whom also Abraham gave tithes of all things) first is by interpretation king of righteousness, after that he is king of Salem, that is to say king of peace," 
Hebrews7:3 without father, without mother, without kin, and hath neither beginning of his time,(beginning of days) neither yet end of his life: but is likened unto the son of God, and remaineth(continueth) a priest for ever." 
Hebrews7:4 Consider what(how great) a man this was, unto whom the patriarch Abraham gave tithes of the spoils." 
Hebrews7:5 And verily those children of Levi, which receive the office of the priests,(priesthood) have a commandment to take according to the law, tithes of the people, that is to say, of their brethren, yea though they sprung(also came) out of the loins of Abraham." 
Hebrews7:6 But he whose kindred is not counted among them, received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises." 
Hebrews7:7 And no man denieth but that which is less,(Now is it so without all naysaying, that the less) receiveth blessing of that(him) which is greater.(better)" 
Hebrews7:8 And here men that die receive tithes. But there he receiveth tithes of whom it is witnessed, that he liveth." 
Hebrews7:9 And to say the truth, Levi him self also which receiveth tithes, paid tithes in Abraham." 
Hebrews7:10 For he was yet in the loins of his father Abraham, when Melchisedech met him." 
Hebrews7:11 If now therefore perfection came by the priesthood of the levites (for under that priesthood the people received the law) what needed it furthermore that another priest should rise, after the order of Melchisedech, and not after the order of Aaron?" 
Hebrews7:12 Now no doubt, if the priesthood be translated, then of necessity must the law be translated also." 
Hebrews7:13 For he of whom these things are spoken, pertaineth unto another tribe, of which, never man served at the altar." 
Hebrews7:14 For it is evident that our Lord sprung of the tribe of Juda, of(to the) which tribe spake Moses nothing concerning priesthood." 
Hebrews7:15 And it is yet a more evident thing, if after the similitude of Melchisedech there arise another priest," 
Hebrews7:16 which is not made after the law of the carnal commandment: but after the power of the endless life. 
Hebrews7:17 For he testifieth: Thou art a priest for ever, after the order of Melchisedech." 
Hebrews7:18 Then the commandment that went afore, is disannulled, because of his(her) weakness and unprofitableness." 
Hebrews7:19 For the law made no thing perfect: but was an introduction of a better hope, by which hope, we draw nigh unto God." 
Hebrews7:20 And for this cause it is a better hope, that it was not promised without an oath." 
Hebrews7:21 Those priests were made without an oath: but this priest with an oath, by him that said unto him: The Lord sware, and will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedech:" 
Hebrews7:22 And for that cause was Jesus(Thus is Iesus become) a stablisher of(of so much) a better testament. 
Hebrews7:23 And among them many were made priests, because they were not suffered to endure by the reason of death." 
Hebrews7:24 But this man, because he endureth ever, hath an everlasting priesthood:" 
Hebrews7:25 Wherefore he is able also ever to save them that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth, to make intercession for us." 
Hebrews7:26 Such an high priest it becometh(became) us to have, which is wholy,(holy) harmless,(innocent) undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than heaven." 
Hebrews7:27 Which needeth not daily (as yonder high priests) to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's sins. For that did he at once for all, when he offered up himself:" 
Hebrews7:28 For the law maketh men priests, which have infirmity: but the word of the oath that came since the law, maketh the son priest, which is perfect for evermore." 
Hebrews8:1 Of the things which we have spoken, this is the pith: that we have such an high(hye) priest that is sitten on the right hand of the seat of majesty in heaven," 
Hebrews8:2 and is a minister of wholy(holy) things, and of the very(true) tabernacle, which God pight,(pitched) and not man." 
Hebrews8:3 For every high(hye) priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity, that this man have some what also to offer." 
Hebrews8:4 For he were not a priest, if he were on the earth where are priests that according to the law offer gifts," 
Hebrews8:5 which priests serve unto the ensample and shadow of heavenly things: even as the answer of God was given unto Moses when he was about to finish the tabernacle: For take heed (said he) that thou make all things according to the patron shewed to thee in the mount. 
Hebrews8:6 Now hath he obtained a more excellent office, inasmuch as he is the mediator of a better testament, which was made for better promises." 
Hebrews8:7 For if that first testament had been such a one that no man could have found fault with it:(faultless:) then should no place have been sought for the second. 
Hebrews8:8 For in rebuking them he saith: Behold the days will come (saith the Lord) and I will finish upon the house of Israel, and upon the house of Judah, a new testament:" 
Hebrews8:9 not like(as) the testament that(which) I made with their fathers at that time, when I took them by the hands, to lead them out of the land of Egypt, for they continued not in my testament, and I regarded them not saith the Lord." 
Hebrews8:10 For this is the testament that I will make with the house of Israel: After those days (saith the Lord:) I will put(give) my laws in their minds,(mind) and in their hearts, I will write them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people." 
Hebrews8:11 And they shall not teach, every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying: know the Lord: For they shall know me, from the least to the most of them:" 
Hebrews8:12 For I will be merciful over their iniquities: and on their sins and on their unrighteousness, will I not think any more.(For I will be merciful over their unrighteousness, and on their sins and on their iniquities.)" 
Hebrews8:13 In that he saith a new testament, he hath abrogate(weareth out) the old. Now that which is disannulled(worn out) and waxed old, is ready to vanish away." 
Hebrews9:1 That first tabernacle verily had justifyings,(ordinances) and servings of God, and worldly(outward) holiness." 
Hebrews9:2 For that first tabernacle was made,(for there was a fore tabernacle made,) wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shew bread, which is called wholy.(Holy.)" 
Hebrews9:3 Within(But behind) the second veil was the tabernacle,(But within the second vayle was there a tabernacle,) which is called holiest of all," 
Hebrews9:4 which had the golden censer, and the ark of the testament overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot with Manna, and Aaron's rod that sprung,(flourished) and the tables of the testament." 
Hebrews9:5 Over the ark(Above therein) were the cherubims of glory shadowing the seat of grace.(overshadowing the Mercyseat) Of which things, we will not now speak particularly." 
Hebrews9:6 When these things were thus ordained, the priests went always(all ways) into the first tabernacle and executed the service of God:" 
Hebrews9:7 (But) Into the second went the high priest alone, once every(in the) year: but(and) not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the ignorance of the people:" 
Hebrews9:8 (Wherewith) The holy ghost this signifying, that the way of holy things(holiness) was not yet opened, while as yet the first tabernacle was standing," 
Hebrews9:9 which was a similitude of this present time,(a similitude for the tyme then present,) in which gifts and sacrifices are offered, which can(the time then present, and in which were offered gifts and sacrifices that could) not make them that minister perfect,(him, that did the Gods service) as pertaining to the conscience," 
Hebrews9:10 with meats only and drinks, and divers washings, and justifyings of the flesh, which were ordained until the time of reformation." 
Hebrews9:11 But Christ being an high(hye) priest of good things to come, came by a greater, and a more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands: that is to say, not of this manner building," 
Hebrews9:12 neither by the blood of goats, and calves: but by his own blood, he(we) entered once for all into the wholy(holy) place, and found eternal redemption." 
Hebrews9:13 For if the blood of oxen, and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer, when it was sprinkled, purified(halloweth) the unclean, as touching the purifying(purification) of the flesh:" 
Hebrews9:14 How much more shall the blood of Christ (which thorow the eternal spirit, offered himself without spot to God) purge our(your) consciences from dead works, for to serve the living God?" 
Hebrews9:15 And for this cause is he the mediator of the new testament, that as sone (as his death was fulfilled for the redemption(that thorow death which chanced for the redemption) of those transgressions that were in the first testament) they which were called, might receive the promise of eternal inheritance." 
Hebrews9:16 For wheresoever is a testament, there must also be the death of him that maketh the testament." 
Hebrews9:17 For the testament taketh authority when men are dead: For it is of no value as long as he that made it is alive. 
Hebrews9:18 For which cause also, neither that first testament was ordained without blood." 
Hebrews9:19 For when all the commandments were read of Moses unto all the people, he took the blood of calves, and of goats, with water and purple wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people," 
Hebrews9:20 saying this is the blood of the testament, which God hath appointed unto you." 
Hebrews9:21 Moreover, he sprinkled the tabernacle with blood also, and all the ministering vessels.(vessels of the Gods service)" 
Hebrews9:22 And almost all things, according to(are by) the law, are cleansed(purged) with blood, and without effusion(shedding) of blood, is no remission." 
Hebrews9:23 It is then need(necessary) that the similitudes of heavenly things, be purified with such things: but the heavenly things themselves are purified with better sacrifices than are these.(those.)" 
Hebrews9:24 For Christ is not entered into the holy places, that are made with hands, which are but similitudes of true things: but is entered into very heaven, for to appear now in the sight(before the face) of God for us." 
Hebrews9:25 Not to offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with strange blood:" 
Hebrews9:26 for then must he have often suffered since the world began: But now in the end of the world, hath he appeared once for all,(hath he appeared once,) to put sin to flight, by the offering up of himself." 
Hebrews9:27 And as it is appointed unto men that they shall once die, and then cometh the judgment," 
Hebrews9:28 even so Christ was once offered to take away the sins of many, and unto them that look for him, shall he appear again, without sin unto their health.(salvation.)" 
Hebrews10:1 For the law which hath but the shadow of good things to come, and not the things in their own fashion, can never with the sacrifices which they offer year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect." 
Hebrews10:2 For would not then those sacrifices have ceased to have been offered? because that the offerers once purged, should have had no more consciences of sins." 
Hebrews10:3 Nevertheless in those sacrifices is there mention(a rememberance) made of sins every year. 
Hebrews10:4 For it is unpossible that the blood of oxen, and of goats should take away sins." 
Hebrews10:5 Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith: Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not have: but a body hast thou ordained me," 
Hebrews10:6 holocausts and sacrifice for sin thou hast not allowed.(In sacrifices and sinofferings thou hast no lust.) 
Hebrews10:7 Then I said: Lo I come; In the beginning of the book it is written of me,(In the chiefest of the book it is written of me,) that I should do thy will, o God." 
Hebrews10:8 Above when he sayeth(had said) sacrifice, and offering, and holocausts,(burntsacrifices) and sacrifice for sin,(sinofferings) thou wouldest not have, neither hast allowed (which (yet) are offered by the law)" 
Hebrews10:9 (And) then he said: Lo I am ready(come to) do thy will o God: he taketh away the first to stablish the latter. 
Hebrews10:10 By the which will we are sanctified, by the offering of the body of Jesu Christ once for all." 
Hebrews10:11 And every priest is ready daily ministering, and often times offereth one manner of offering, which can never take away sins:" 
Hebrews10:12 but this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sins, (which is of value for ever) sat him down for ever on the right hand of God," 
Hebrews10:13 and from henceforth tarrieth till his foes be made his footstool. 
Hebrews10:14 For with one offering hath he made perfect for ever them that are sanctified. 
Hebrews10:15 And the holy ghost also beareth us record of this, even when he told(said) before:" 
Hebrews10:16 This is the testament that I will make unto them after those days saith the Lord. And I will put my laws in their hearts, and in their minds I will write them," 
Hebrews10:17 and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. 
Hebrews10:18 And where remission of these things is, there is no more offering for sin." 
Hebrews10:19 Seeing brethren that by the means of the blood of Jesu, we may be bold to enter(that we have a free sure intrance) into that holy place," 
Hebrews10:20 by the new and living way, which he hath prepared for us, through the veil, that is to say by his flesh." 
Hebrews10:21 And seeing also that we have an high(hye) priest which is ruler over the house of God," 
Hebrews10:22 let us draw nigh with a true heart in a full faith sprinkled in our hearts, from an evil conscience, and washed in our bodies with pure water," 
Hebrews10:23 and let us keep the profession of our hope, without wavering (for he is faithful that promised)" 
Hebrews10:24 and let us consider one another to provoke unto love,(the provoking of love) and to good works:" 
Hebrews10:25 and let us not forsake the fellowship that we have among ourselves, as the manner of some is: but let us exhort one another, and that so much the more, because ye see that the day draweth nigh." 
Hebrews10:26 For if we sin willingly(willfully) after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins:" 
Hebrews10:27 but a fearful looking for judgment, and violent fire, which shall devour the adversaries." 
Hebrews10:28 He that despiseth Moses' law, dieth without mercy under two or three witnesses." 
Hebrews10:29 Of how much sorer punishment suppose ye shall he be counted worthy, which treadeth under foot the son of God: and counteth the blood of the testament as an unholy thing, wherewith he was(is) sanctified, and doth dishonour to the spirit of grace." 
Hebrews10:30 For we know him that hath said, vengeance belongeth unto me,(Vengance is mine) I will recompense saith the Lord. And again: the Lord shall judge his people." 
Hebrews10:31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. 
Hebrews10:32 Call to remembrance the days that are passed in the which, after ye had received light, ye abode(endured) a great fight in adversities," 
Hebrews10:33 partly while all men wondered and gazed at you for the shame and tribulation that was done unto you, and partly while ye became companions of them which so passed their time." 
Hebrews10:34 For ye suffered also with my bonds, and took a(in) worth the spoiling of your goods, and that with gladness, remembering(knowing) in yourselves how that ye had in heaven a better, and an enduring substance." 
Hebrews10:35 Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great reward to recompense.(hath so great a reward)" 
Hebrews10:36 For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise." 
Hebrews10:37 For yet a very(over a) little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry:" 
Hebrews10:38 But the just shall live by faith. And if he withdraw himself, my soul shall have no pleasure in him." 
Hebrews10:39 We are not which withdraw ourselves unto damnation, but pertain to faith, for to win our souls.(to the winning of the soul.)(but of them that believe to the winning of the soul)" 
Hebrews11:1 Faith is a sure confidence of things which are hoped for, and a certainty of things which are not seen." 
Hebrews11:2 By it the elders were well reported of. 
Hebrews11:3 Thorow faith we understand that the world was ordained, by the word of God: That by the means of things which appear, things which are invisible might be known.(and that things which are seen, were made of things which are not seen.)" 
Hebrews11:4 By faith Abel offered unto God a more plenteous sacrifice than Cain: by which, he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: by which also he being dead, yet speaketh." 
Hebrews11:5 By faith was Enoch translated(taken away) that he should not see death: neither was he found: for God had taken him away. Before he was taken away, he obtained record,(was reported of) that he had pleased God:" 
Hebrews11:6 but without faith it is unpossible to please him. For he that cometh to God, must believe that God is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek him." 
Hebrews11:7 By faith Noah honoured God, after that he was warned of things which were not seen, and prepared the ark to the saving of his household, thorow the which ark he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which cometh by faith." 
Hebrews11:8 By faith Abraham, when he was called obeyed to go out into a place, which he should afterward receive to inheritance, and he went out, not knowing whither he should go." 
Hebrews11:9 By faith he removed(was he a stranger) into the land that was promised him, as into a strange country, and dwelt in tabernacles: and so did Isaac, and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise." 
Hebrews11:10 For he looked for a city having a foundation, whose builder and maker is God." 
Hebrews11:11 Thorow(By) faith Sara also received strength to be with child, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful(to be faithfull) which had promised." 
Hebrews11:12 And therefore sprang there of(thereof) one (and of one which was as good as dead) so many in multitude, as the stars of the sky, and as the sand of the sea shore which is innumerable." 
Hebrews11:13 And they all died in(these died according to) faith, and received not the promises: but saw them afar off, and believed them, and saluted them: and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the(upon) earth." 
Hebrews11:14 They that say such things, declare that they seek a country.(a naturall country)" 
Hebrews11:15 Also if they had been mindful of that country, from whence they came, (out) they had leisure to have returned again." 
Hebrews11:16 But now they desire a better, that is to say a celestial.(heavenly.) Wherefore God is not ashamed of them, even to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city." 
Hebrews11:17 In(By) faith Abraham offered up Isaac, when he was tempted, and he offered him being(and gave over) his only (begotten) son, in whom he(which) had received the promises:" 
Hebrews11:18 Of whom it was said, in Isaac shall thy seed be called:" 
Hebrews11:19 for he considered, that God was able to raise up again from death.(the dead) Wherefore received he him, as an ensample(Wherefore received he him, for an ensample) of the resurrection." 
Hebrews11:20 In faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, as concerning things to come." 
Hebrews11:21 By faith Jacob when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph, and worshipped on the top of his sceptre.(bowed himself toward the top of his scepter,)" 
Hebrews11:22 By faith Joseph when he died, remembered the departing of the children of Israel, and gave commandment of his bones." 
Hebrews11:23 By faith Moses when he was born, was hid three months of his father and mother, because they saw he was a proper child: neither feared they the king's commandment." 
Hebrews11:24 By faith Moses when he was of a great age,(when he was great) refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter," 
Hebrews11:25 and chose rather to suffer adversity with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season," 
Hebrews11:26 and esteemed the rebuke of Christ greater riches, than the treasure of Egypt. For he had a respect unto the reward." 
Hebrews11:27 By faith he forsook Egypt, and feared not the fierceness of the king. For he endured, even as he had seen him which is invisible." 
Hebrews11:28 Thorow faith he ordained the ester lamb, and the effusion of blood, lest he that destroyed(slew) the first born should touch them." 
Hebrews11:29 By faith they passed thorow the reed sea as by dry land, which when the egyptians had assayed to do, they were drowned." 
Hebrews11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were compassed about, seven days." 
Hebrews11:31 By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not,(unbelievers) after(when) she had received the spies to lodging peaceably." 
Hebrews11:32 And what shall I more say, the time would be too short for me to tell of Gideon, of Barach, and of Samson, and of Jephthae. Also of David and Samuel, and of the prophets," 
Hebrews11:33 which thorow faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained the promises, stopped the mouths of lions," 
Hebrews11:34 quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, of weak were made strong, waxed valiant in fight,(became valiant in battle) turned to flight the armies of the aliens." 
Hebrews11:35 (And) The women received their dead raised to life again. Other(others) were racked, and would not be delivered, that they might receive(obtain) a better resurrection." 
Hebrews11:36 Other(others) tasted of mockings, and scourgings, moreover of bonds and prisonment:" 
Hebrews11:37 were stoned, were hewn asunder, were tempted, were slain with swords, walked up and down(went about) in sheep skins, in goat skins, in need, tribulation, and vexation," 
Hebrews11:38 which the world was not worthy of: They wandered in wilderness, in mountains, in dens and caves of the earth." 
Hebrews11:39 And these all thorow faith obtained good report, and received not the promise;" 
Hebrews11:40 God providing a better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect." 
Hebrews12:1 Wherefore let us also (seeing that we are compassed with so great a multitude of witnesses) lay away all that presseth down, and the sin that hangeth on us, and let us run with patience, unto the battle that is set before us," 
Hebrews12:2 looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, which for the joy that was set(layed) before him, abode the cross, and despised the shame, and is set down on the right hand of the throne of God." 
Hebrews12:3 Consider therefore how that he endured such speaking against him of sinners, lest ye should be wearied and faint in your minds." 
Hebrews12:4 For ye have not yet resisted unto blood shedding, striving against sin." 
Hebrews12:5 And ye have forgotten the consolation which speaketh unto you, as unto children: My son despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither faint when thou art rebuked of him:" 
Hebrews12:6 For whom the Lord loveth, him he chasteneth: yea, and he scourgeth every son that he receiveth." 
Hebrews12:7 If ye shall endure chastening, god offereth himself unto you, as unto sons. What son is that whom the father chasteneth not?" 
Hebrews12:8 If ye be not under correction (where of all are partakers) then are ye bastards and not sons. 
Hebrews12:9 Moreover seeing we had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall not we(should we not) much rather be in subjection unto the father of spiritual gifts that we might live?" 
Hebrews12:10 And they verily for a few days, nurtured us after their own pleasure: but he learneth us unto that which is profitable, that we might receive of his holiness." 
Hebrews12:11 No manner learning for the present time(No manner chastising for the present tyme) seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it bringeth the quiet fruit of righteousness unto them which are therein exercised.(exercised thereby)" 
Hebrews12:12 Stretch forth therefore again(Life up therefore) the hands which were let down, and the weak knees," 
Hebrews12:13 and see that ye have straight steps unto your feet, lest any halting turn out of the way: yea, let it rather be healed." 
Hebrews12:14 Embrace(Follow after) peace with all men, and wholiness:(holiness) without the which, no man shall see the Lord." 
Hebrews12:15 And see(look to) that no man be destitute of the grace of God, lest any(and that no) root(rote) of bitterness(bitter rote) spring up and trouble:(cause disquiteness) and thereby many be defiled." 
Hebrews12:16 (and) That there be no fornicator,(whoremonger) or unclean person, as Esau, which for one breakfast sold his right that belonged unto him, in that he was the eldest brother.(as Esau, which for one breakfast sold his birthright.)" 
Hebrews12:17 Ye know how that afterward when that he would have inherited the blessing, he was put by. His repentance found no grace, no though he desired that blessing with tears.(and he found no means to come thereby again: no though he desired it with tears.)" 
Hebrews12:18 For ye are not come unto the mount that is(can be) touched, and unto burning fire, nor yet to mist and darkness and tempest of weather," 
Hebrews12:19 neither unto the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words: which voice they that heard it, wished away, that the communication(word) should not be spoken to them." 
Hebrews12:20 For they were not able to abide that which was spoken. If a beast had touched the mountain, it must have been stoned, or thrust thorow with a dart:" 
Hebrews12:21 even so terrible was the sight which appeared. Moses said I fear and quake. 
Hebrews12:22 But ye are come unto the mount Sion, and to the city of the living God, the celestial Jerusalem: and to an innumerable sight of(to the multitude of many thousand) angels," 
Hebrews12:23 and unto the congregation of the first born sons, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of Just and perfect men," 
Hebrews12:24 and to Jesus the mediator of the new testament, and to the sprinkling of blood that speaketh better than the blood of Abel." 
Hebrews12:25 See that ye despise not him that speaketh.(speaketh unto you) For if they escaped not which refused him that spake on earth: Much more shall we not escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven:" 
Hebrews12:26 whose voice then shook the earth, and now declareth(promiseth) saying: yet once more will I shake, not the earth only, but also heaven." 
Hebrews12:27 No doubt the same that he sayeth, yet once more, signifieth the removing a way of those things which are shaken, as of things which have ended their course: that the things which are not shaken may remain." 
Hebrews12:28 Wherefore if we receive a kingdom which is not moved, we have grace, whereby we may serve God and please him with reverence and godly fear." 
Hebrews12:29 For our God is a consuming fire. 
Hebrews13:1 Let brotherly love continue. 
Hebrews13:2 Be not forgetful to be kind to(lodge) strangers. For thereby have divers received angels into their houses unawares. 
Hebrews13:3 Remember them that are in bonds, even as though ye were bound (bond) with them. Be mindful of them which are in adversity, as ye which are yet in your bodies." 
Hebrews13:4 Let wedlock be had in price in all points, and let the chamber be undefiled: for whore keepers and advoutrers God will judge." 
Hebrews13:5 Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with that ye have already. For he verily said: I will not fail thee, neither forsake thee:" 
Hebrews13:6 that we may boldly say: The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man doeth unto me." 
Hebrews13:7 Remember them which have the oversight of you, which have declared unto you the word of God: consider the conversation of their living, and counterfeit their faith.(The end of whose conversation see that ye look upon, and follow their faith.)" 
Hebrews13:8 Jesus Christ yesterday and today, and the same continueth for ever." 
Hebrews13:9 Be not carried thither(about) with divers and strange learning.(learnings) For it is a good thing that the heart be stablished with grace, and not with meats, which have not profited them that have had their pastime in them." 
Hebrews13:10 We have an altar whereof they may not eat(they have no power to eat) which serve in the tabernacle. 
Hebrews13:11 For the bodies of those beasts (whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest to purge sin) are burnt without the tents. 
Hebrews13:12 Therefore Jesus, to sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered with out the gate." 
Hebrews13:13 Let us go forth therefore out of the tents, and suffer rebuke with him." 
Hebrews13:14 For here have we no continuing city: but we seek a city(one) to come. 
Hebrews13:15 For by him offer we the sacrifice of laud(praise) always to God: that is to say the fruit of those lips, which confess his name." 
Hebrews13:16 To do good, and to distribute forget not, for with such sacrifices God is pleased." 
Hebrews13:17 Obey them that have the oversight of you, and submit yourselves to them, for they watch for your souls, even as they should(that must) give accounts(acomptes) for them: that they may do it with joy, and not with grief. For that is an unprofitable thing for you." 
Hebrews13:18 Pray for us. We have confidence because we have a good conscience in all things, and desire to live honestly." 
Hebrews13:19 I desire you therefore somewhat the more abundantly, that ye so do, that I may be restored to you quickly.(the more quickly)" 
Hebrews13:20 The God of peace that brought again from death our Lord Jesus Christ, the great shepherd of the sheep, thorow the blood of the everlasting testament," 
Hebrews13:21 make you perfect in all works, to do his will, and bring to pass, that whatsoever ye do, may be accepted in his sight, by the means of Jesus Christ.(make you perfect in all good works, to do his will, working in you that which is pleasant in his sight thorow Iesus Christ) To whom be praise for ever while the world endureth Amen." 
Hebrews13:22 I beseech you brethren, suffer the words of exhortation: For we have written unto you in few words." 
Hebrews13:23 Know the brother Timothy, whom we have sent from us, with whom (if he come shortly) I will see you." 
Hebrews13:24 Salute them that have the oversight of you, and all the saints. They(The Brethren) of Italy, salute you." 
Hebrews13:25 Grace be with you all Amen. [Here endeth the epistle of saint Paul unto the Hebrews, Sent from Italy by Timotheous.]" 
James1:1 James the servant of God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, sendeth greeting to the twelve tribes which are scattered here and there." 
James1:2 My brethren, count it exceeding joy when ye fall into divers temptations," 
James1:3 remembering(forasmuch as ye know) how that the trying of your faith bringeth patience: 
James1:4 and let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and sound, that nothing be lacking unto you.(lacking nothing.)" 
James1:5 If any that is among(of) you lack wisdom, let him ask of God (which giveth to all men without doubleness,(indifferently) and casteth no man in the teeth:) and it shall be given him:" 
James1:6 but let him ask in faith, and waver not. For he that doubteth is like the waves of the sea, tossed of the wind, and carried with violence." 
James1:7 Neither let that man think that he shall receive any thing of God.(the Lord.) 
James1:8 A wavering minded man is unstable in all his ways. 
James1:9 Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted," 
James1:10 and the rich in that he is made low. For even as the flower of the grass shall he vanish away. 
James1:11 The son riseth with heat, and the grass is withered,(withereth) and his flower fallen(falleth) away, and the beauty of the fashion of it is perished:(perisheth) even so shall the rich man perish in(with) his abundance." 
James1:12 Happy is the man that endureth in temptation, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him." 
James1:13 Let no man say when he is tempted that he is tempted of God: for God tempteth not unto evil: he tempteth no man:(neither tempteth he any man.) 
James1:14 But every man is tempted drawn away, and enticed of his own concupiscence." 
James1:15 Then when lust hath conceived, she bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death." 
James1:16 Err not my dear brethren. 
James1:17 Every good gift, and every perfect gift, is from above and cometh down from the father of light, with whom is no variableness, neither is he changed unto darkness." 
James1:18 Of his own will begat he us with the word of life, that we should be the first of his creatures.(that we should be the first fruits of his creatures.)" 
James1:19 Wherefore dear brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath." 
James1:20 For the wrath of man worketh not that which is righteous before God. 
James1:21 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness, all superfluity of maliciousness, and receive with meekness the word that is grafted in you, which is able to save your souls:" 
James1:22 And see that ye be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. (with sophistry)" 
James1:23 For if any hear the word, and do it not, he is like unto a man that beholdeth his bodily face in a glass." 
James1:24 For as soon as he hath looked on himself, he goeth his way, and hath immediately forgotten(forgetteth immediately) what his fashion was:" 
James1:25 but whosoever(whoso) looketh in the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein (if he be not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work) he(the same) shall be happy in his deed." 
James1:26 If any man among you seem(seme) devout, and refrain not his tongue: but deceive his own heart, this man's devotion is in vain." 
James1:27 Pure devotion and undefiled before God the father, is this: To visit the friendless,(fatherless) and widows in their adversity, and to keep himself unspotted from(of) the world." 
James2:1 Brethren have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ the Lord of glory in respect of persons. 
James2:2 If there come into your company a man with a golden ring, and in goodly apparel and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment," 
James2:3 and ye have a respect to him that weareth the gay clothing and say unto him: Sit thou here in a good place: and say unto the poor, stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool:" 
James2:4 are ye not even partial in your selves,(are ye not parciall in your selves,) and have judged after evil thoughts?" 
James2:5 Hearken my dear beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, which are rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom, which he promised to them that love him?" 
James2:6 But ye have despised the poor. Are not the rich they which oppress you: and they which draw you before judges? 
James2:7 Do not they speak evil of that good name that is called on over you?(of that good name after which ye be named.) 
James2:8 If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture which saith: Thou shalt love thine neighbour as thyself, ye do well:" 
James2:9 but if ye regard one person more than another, ye commit sin, and are rebuked of the law as transgressors." 
James2:10 Whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet fail in one point, he is guilty in all." 
James2:11 For he that said: Thou shalt not commit fornication,(adultery) said also: thou shalt not kill. Though thou shalt do no fornication,(do none adultery) yet if thou kill, thou art a transgressor of the law." 
James2:12 So speak ye, and so do as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty." 
James2:13 For there shall be judgement merciless to him that sheweth no mercy, and mercy rejoiceth against judgement:" 
James2:14 What availeth it my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, when he hath no deeds? Can faith save him?" 
James2:15 If a brother or a sister be naked or destitute of daily food," 
James2:16 and one of you say unto them: Depart in peace, God send you warmness and food: notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body: what helpeth it them?" 
James2:17 Even so faith, if it have no deeds is dead in itself." 
James2:18 But one shall(Yea and a man might) say: Thou hast faith, and I have deeds: Shew me thy faith by thy deeds: and I will shew thee my faith by my deeds." 
James2:19 Believest thou that there is one God? Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. 
James2:20 Wilt thou understand o thou vain man, that faith without deeds is dead?" 
James2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified of his deeds(thorow works) when he offered Isaac his son upon the altar? 
James2:22 Thou seest how that faith wrought with in his deeds, and through the deeds was the faith made perfect." 
James2:23 And the scripture was fulfilled which saith: Abraham believed God, and it was reputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the friend of God." 
James2:24 Ye see then how that of deeds a man is justified, and not of faith only." 
James2:25 Likewise also was not Raab the harlot justified when she(justified thorow works, when she) received the messengers, and sent them out another way?" 
James2:26 For as the body, without the spirit is dead, even so faith without deeds is dead." 
James3:1 My brethren, be not every man a master; Remembering how that we shall receive the more damnation." 
James3:2 For in many things we sin all. If a man sin not in word, he(the same) is a perfect man and able to tame all the body." 
James3:3 Behold we put bits into the horses' mouths that they should obey us, and we turn about all the body." 
James3:4 Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the violence of the governor will:" 
James3:5 even so the tongue is little member and boasteth great things. Behold how great a thing a little fire kindleth," 
James3:6 and the tongue is fire, and a world of wickedness. So is the tongue set among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth a fire all that we have of nature, and is itself set afire, even of hell." 
James3:7 All the natures of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and things of the sea, are meeked and tamed of the nature of man." 
James3:8 But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. 
James3:9 Therewith bless we God the father, and therewith curse we men which are made after the (image and) similitude of God." 
James3:10 Out of one mouth(mought) proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren these things ought not so to be. 
James3:11 Doth a fountain send forth at one place sweet water, and bitter also?" 
James3:12 Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries: other(or) a vine bear figs? So can no fountain give both salt water and fresh also." 
James3:13 Who is(If any man be) wise and endued with learning among you? Let him shew the works of his good conversation in meekness that is coupled with wisdom. 
James3:14 But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, rejoice not: neither be liars against the truth." 
James3:15 This wisdom descendeth not from above: but is earthy, and natural, and devilish:" 
James3:16 For where envying and strife is, there is unstableness, and all manner of evil works:" 
James3:17 but the wisdom that is from above, is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without judging, and without simulation:" 
James3:18 yea, and the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace, of them that keep(maintain) peace." 
James4:1 From whence cometh war, and fighting among you? come they not here hence? even of your voluptuousness that raineth(rayne) in your members." 
James4:2 Ye lust, and have not. Ye envy and have indignation, and cannot come by it.(cannot obtain) Ye fight and war, and have not, because ye ask not." 
James4:3 Ye ask and have not,(receive not) because ye ask amiss, for(even) to consume it upon your voluptuousness." 
James4:4 Ye advoutrers, and women that break matrimony: know ye not how that the friendship of the world is enmity to Godward? Whosoever will be friend of the world, is made the enemy of God." 
James4:5 Do ye suppose(Either do ye think) that the scripture saith in vain: The spirit that dwelleth in you, lusteth even contrary to envy:" 
James4:6 but giveth more grace. (wherefore he sayeth: God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the lowly.)" 
James4:7 Submit yourselves to God, and resist the devil, and he will flee(flye) from you." 
James4:8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands ye sinners, and purge your hearts ye wavering minded." 
James4:9 Suffer afflictions: sorrow ye and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness." 
James4:10 Cast down yourselves before the Lord, and he shall lift you up." 
James4:11 Backbite not one another, brethren. He that backbiteth his brother, and he that judgeth his brother, backbiteth the law, and judgeth the law: but and if thou judge the law, thou art not an observer of the law: but a judge." 
James4:12 There is one law giver, (and judge) which is able to save and to destroy. What art thou that judgest another man?" 
James4:13 Go to now ye that say: today and tomorrow let us go into such a city and continue there a year and buy, and sell, and win:" 
James4:14 and yet cannot tell what shall happen tomorrow. For what thing is your life? it is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away:" 
James4:15 For that ye ought to say: if the Lord will and if we live, let us do this or that." 
James4:16 But now ye rejoice in your boastings. All such rejoicing is evil. 
James4:17 Therefore to him that knoweth how to do good, and doth it not, (to him) it is sin." 
James5:1 Go to now ye rich men. Weep, and howl on your wretchedness that shall come upon you." 
James5:2 Your riches is corrupt, your garments are motheaten." 
James5:3 Your gold and your silver are cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness unto you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together (even wrath to your selves) in your last days:" 
James5:4 Behold the hire of the laborers which have reaped down your fields (which hire is of you kept back by fraud) crieth: and the cries of them which have reaped, are entered into the ears of the Lord Sabaoth." 
James5:5 Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and in wantonness. Ye have nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter." 
James5:6 Ye have condemned and have killed the just, and he hath not resisted you." 
James5:7 Be patient therefore brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold the husband man waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience there upon, until he receive the early and the latter rain." 
James5:8 Be ye also patient therefore, and settle your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh." 
James5:9 Grudge not one against another brethren, lest ye be dampned. Behold the judge standeth before the door." 
James5:10 Take (my brethren) the prophets for an ensample of suffering adversity, and of long patience, which spake in the name of the Lord." 
James5:11 Behold we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have known what end the Lord made. For the Lord is very pitiful, and merciful." 
James5:12 But above all things my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by earth, neither by any other oath. Let your saying be yea yea, and nay nay:(Let your yea be yea, and your nay nay) lest ye fall(faule) into hypocrisy." 
James5:13 Is there any among of you that is evil vexed? let him pray. Is there any among you that is merry? let him sing psalms.(If any of you be evil vexed, let him pray. If any of you be merry, let him sing Psalms.)" 
James5:14 Is there any man(If any be) diseased among you? Let him call for the seniors(elders) of the congregation, and let them pray over him, and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord:" 
James5:15 and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up: and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him." 
James5:16 Knowledge your faults one to another: and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man availeth much, if it be fervent." 
James5:17 Helias was a man in danger to tribulation as we are,(Helias was a man mortall even as we are) and he prayed in his prayer, that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months." 
James5:18 And again he prayed, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit." 
James5:19 Brethren if any of you err from the truth, and another convert him," 
James5:20 let the same know, that he which converted the sinner from going astray out of his way, shall save a soul from death, and shall hide the multitude of sins. [The end of the pistel of Saynct James.]" 
1Peter1:1 Peter an apostle of Jesu Christ, to them that dwell here and there as strangers thorow out, Pontus, Galacia, Capadocia, Asia, and Bethinia," 
1Peter1:2 elect by(according to) the foreknowledge of God the father, thorow the sanctifying of the spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace be with you, and peace be multiplied." 
1Peter1:3 Blessed be God the father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which thorow his abundant mercy begat(according to his great mercy hath begotten) us again unto a lively hope, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from death,(from the dead)" 
1Peter1:4 to enjoy an inheritance immortal,(uncorruptible) and undefiled, and that putrifieth(perisheth) not,(which never shall fade away) reserved in heaven for you" 
1Peter1:5 which are kept by the power of God thorow faith, unto health, which health(salvation, which salvation) is prepared all ready to be shewed in the last time," 
1Peter1:6 in the which time ye shall rejoice, though now for a season (if need require) ye are in heaviness, thorow many fold temptations," 
1Peter1:7 that your faith once tried being much more precious than gold that perisheth (though it be tried with fire) might be found unto laud, glory, and honour, when Jesus Christ shall appear:(at the appearing of Jesus Christ:)" 
1Peter1:8 whom ye have not seen and yet love him, in whom even now, though ye see him not, yet ye believe, and rejoice with joy ineffable,(unspeakable) and glorious:(unoutspeakable and glorious joy)" 
1Peter1:9 receiving the end of your faith, the health(salvation) of your souls." 
1Peter1:10 Of which health,(salvation) have the prophets enquired, and sought,(searched) which prophesied of the grace that should come unto you," 
1Peter1:11 searching when, or at what time the spirit of Christ which was in them should signify, which spirit testified before, the passions that should come unto Christ, and the glory that should follow after:" 
1Peter1:12 unto which prophets it was declared, that not unto themselves, but unto us, they should minister the things which are now shewed unto you, of them which by(thorow) the holy ghost sent down from heaven, have preached unto you the things which the angels desire to behold." 
1Peter1:13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your minds, be sober, and trust perfectly on the grace that is brought unto you, in that Jesus Christ is opened,(by the declaring of Jesus Christ)" 
1Peter1:14 as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves unto your old lusts of ignorance:" 
1Peter1:15 But as he which called you is holy, even so be ye holy in all manner of conversation," 
1Peter1:16 because it is written: Be ye holy, for I am holy." 
1Peter1:17 And if so be that ye call on the father which without respect of person judgeth according to every man's works, see that ye pass the time of your pilgrimage in fear." 
1Peter1:18 Forasmuch as ye know how that ye were not redeemed with corruptible gold and silver from your vain conversation, which ye received by the traditions of the fathers:" 
1Peter1:19 but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb undefiled, and without spot,(innocent)" 
1Peter1:20 which was ordained before the world was made: but was declared in the last times for your sakes," 
1Peter1:21 which by his means have believed(and thorow him believe) on God that raised him from death, and glorified him, that ye might have faith and hope toward God.(that your faith and hope might be in God.)" 
1Peter1:22 And forasmuch as ye have purified your souls thorow the spirit, in obeying the truth(trueth) for to love brotherly without feigning, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently:" 
1Peter1:23 for ye are born a new, not of mortal(corruptible) seed, but of immortal(uncorruptible) seed, by the word of God which liveth, and lasteth for ever,(by the living word of God, which endureth for ever)" 
1Peter1:24 because that(For) all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man is as the flower of grass, the grass is withered,(withereth) and the flower is faded(falleth) away," 
1Peter1:25 but the word of the Lord endureth ever. And this is the word which by the gospel(gospell) was preached among you. 
1Peter2:1 Wherefore lay a side all maliciousness, and all guile, and dissimulation,(hypocrisy) and envy, and all backbiting:" 
1Peter2:2 and as new born babes, desire that reasonable milk which is without corruption, that ye may be grown(may grow) therein. (thereby unto salvation)" 
1Peter2:3 If so be that ye have tasted how pleasant(friendly) the Lord is," 
1Peter2:4 to whom ye come as unto a(the) living stone disallowed of men, but elect(chosen) of God and precious:" 
1Peter2:5 and ye(ye also) as living stones, are made a spiritual house, and an holy priesthood, for to offer up spiritual sacrifice, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ." 
1Peter2:6 Wherefore it is contained in the scripture: behold, I put in Sion an head corner stone, elect and precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be ashamed.(confounded)" 
1Peter2:7 Unto you therefore which believe is he precious: but unto them which believe not the same stone which the builders refused, is made the head stone in the corner,(but unto them which believe not, the stone which the builders refused, the same is made the head stone in the corner)" 
1Peter2:8 and a stone to stumble at, and a rock to offend them(to be offended at, namely in the) which stumble at the word, and believe not that where on they were set." 
1Peter2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal(that kingly) priesthood, an holy nation, and a(that) peculiar people, that ye should shew the virtues of him that called you out of darkness into his marvelous light," 
1Peter2:10 which in time past were not a people, yet are now the people of God, which were not under mercy: but now have obtained mercy." 
1Peter2:11 Dearly beloved I beseech(beseek) you as strangers, and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which fight against the soul," 
1Peter2:12 and see that ye have honest conversation among the gentiles,(Heythen) that they which backbite you as evil doers, may see your good works and praise God in the day of visitation." 
1Peter2:13 Submit yourselves unto all manner ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be unto the King as unto the chief head:" 
1Peter2:14 other unto rulers, as unto them that are sent of him, for the punishment of evil doers: but for the laud of them that well do.(for the praise of them that do well)" 
1Peter2:15 For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye should stop the mouths of ignorant men:(that ye put to silence the ignorance of the foolish men:)" 
1Peter2:16 as free, and not as though ye took(having the) liberty for a cloak of maliciousness:(wickedness) but even as the servants of God." 
1Peter2:17 See that ye honour all men. Love brotherly fellowship, fear God, (and) honour the King." 
1Peter2:18 Servants obey your masters with all fear, not only if they be good and courteous: but also though they be froward." 
1Peter2:19 For it cometh of grace,(for it is thankworthy) if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully.(and suffer wrong)" 
1Peter2:20 For what praise is it, if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently? But and if when ye do well, ye suffer wrong and take it patiently, then is there thanks(is grace) with God." 
1Peter2:21 (For) Hereunto verily were ye called, for Christ also suffered for our sakes:(us) leaving us an ensample that ye should follow his steps," 
1Peter2:22 which did no sin, neither was there guile found in his mouth:" 
1Peter2:23 which when he was reviled, reviled not again: when he suffered, he threatened not: but committed the cause to him that judgeth righteously," 
1Peter2:24 which his own self bare our sins in his body on the tree, that we should be delivered from sin and should live in righteousness. By whose stripes ye were healed." 
1Peter2:25 For ye were as sheep which go(going) astray: but are now returned unto the shepherd, and bishop of your souls." 
1Peter3:1 Likewise let the women(wives) be in subjection to their husbands, that even they which believe not the word, may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives:" 
1Peter3:2 while they behold your pure conversation coupled with(conversation in) fear. 
1Peter3:3 Whose apparel shall not be outward with broided hair, and hanging on of gold, other in putting on of gorgeous apparel:(array)" 
1Peter3:4 but let the hid(inward) man of the heart be uncorrupt, with a meek and a quiet spirit, which spirit is before God a thing much set by." 
1Peter3:5 For after this manner in the old time did the wholy women which trusted in God tire(tyer) themselves, and were obedient to their husbands," 
1Peter3:6 even as Sara obeyed Abraham and called him lord: whose daughters ye are as long as ye do well, and be not(not being) afraid of every shadow.(not being afraid for any trouble)" 
1Peter3:7 Likewise ye men dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as unto them that are heirs also of the grace of life, that your prayers be not let." 
1Peter3:8 In conclusion, be ye all of one mind, one suffer with another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous, (meek)" 
1Peter3:9 not rendering(Recompense not) evil for evil, neither rebuke for rebuke: but contrariwise, bless: remembering that ye are thereunto called, even that ye should be heirs of blessing." 
1Peter3:10 For whoso listeth to love life, and(If any man long after life, and loveth) to see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips, that they speak not guile:" 
1Peter3:11 Let him eschew evil and do good: let him seek peace, and ensue it." 
1Peter3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord beholdeth them that do evil." 
1Peter3:13 Moreover who is it that will(can) harm you if ye follow that which is good? 
1Peter3:14 Notwithstanding happy(blessed) are ye if ye suffer for righteousness' sake. Nevertheless(Yea and) fear not though they seem terrible unto you,(fear not ye their threatning) neither be troubled:" 
1Peter3:15 but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that ye have,(is in you) and that with meekness and fear:" 
1Peter3:16 having a good conscience, that when they backbite you as evil doers, they may be ashamed, forasmuch as they have falsely accused your good conversation in Christ." 
1Peter3:17 It is better (if the will of God be so) that ye suffer for well doing, than for evil doing." 
1Peter3:18 Forasmuch as Christ hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, for to bring us to God, and was killed, as pertaining to(was slain after) the flesh: but was quickened in(after) the spirit." 
1Peter3:19 In which spirit, he also went and preached unto the spirits that were in prison," 
1Peter3:20 which were in time past disobedient,(believed not) when the long suffering of God abode exceeding patiently in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few (that is to say eight souls) were saved by water," 
1Peter3:21 which signifieth baptism that now saveth us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but in that a good conscience consenteth to God, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ," 
1Peter3:22 which is on the(is our) right hand of God, and is gone into heaven, angels, power, and might, subdued unto him." 
1Peter4:1 Forasmuch as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind: for he which suffereth in the flesh ceaseth from sin," 
1Peter4:2 that he henceforward should live as much time as remaineth in the flesh, not after the lusts of men: but after the will of God." 
1Peter4:3 For it is sufficient for us that we have spent the time that is past of the life, after the will of the gentiles,(Heythen) walking in wantonness lusts, drunkenness, in (excess of) eating,(glutony) (excess of) drinking,(riotous drinking) and in abominable idolatry." 
1Peter4:4 And it seemeth to them a strange thing that ye run not also with them unto the same excess of riot, and therefore speak they evil of you," 
1Peter4:5 which shall give account(acomptes) to him that is ready to judge quick and dead.(is ready to judge the quick and the dead) 
1Peter4:6 For unto this purpose verily was the gospel(gospell) preached unto the dead, that they should be judged after the manner of(judged like other) men in the flesh, but should live godly in the spirit.(that they should be condemned of men in the flesh, but should live before God in the spirit)" 
1Peter4:7 The end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore discreet, and sober, that ye may be apt to(and watch unto) prayers." 
1Peter4:8 But above all things have fervent love among you.(among you one to another) For love covereth the multitude of sins. 
1Peter4:9 Be ye harborous, (one to another) and that without grudging." 
1Peter4:10 As every man hath received the gift, minister the same one to another as good ministers(stewards) of the manyfold grace of God." 
1Peter4:11 If any man speak, let him talk as though he speak(spake) the words of God. If any man minister,(have an office) let him do it as of the ability(power) which God ministereth unto him. That God in all things may be glorified(praised) thorow Jesus Christ, to whom be praise(honor) and dominion for ever and while the world standeth(for ever and ever) Amen." 
1Peter4:12 Dearly beloved, be not troubled in(marvel not at) this heat, which now is come among you to try you, as though some strange thing had happened unto you:" 
1Peter4:13 but rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's(Christes) passions, that when his glory appeareth, ye may be merry and glad." 
1Peter4:14 Happy are ye when ye suffer rebuke for the name of Christ.(If ye be railed upon for the name of Christ happy are ye.) For the spirit of glory and the spirit of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of: but on your part he is glorified.(praised) 
1Peter4:15 See that none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief,(murthurer) or an evil doer, or as a busybody in other men's matters." 
1Peter4:16 If any man suffer as a Christian man, let him not be ashamed: but let him glorify(praise) God on this(his) behalf." 
1Peter4:17 For the time is come that judgement must begin at the house of God. If it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them which believe not the gospel(gospell) of God?" 
1Peter4:18 And if the righteous scarcely be saved: where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? 
1Peter4:19 Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God, commit their souls to him with well doing, as unto a faithful creator." 
1Peter5:1 The seniors(elders) which are among you I exhort, which am also an senior,(elder) and a witness of the afflictions of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be opened:" 
1Peter5:2 see that ye feed Christ's(Christes) flock, which is among you, taking the oversight of them, not as though ye were compelled thereto: but willingly: (after a godly sort) Not for the desire of filthy lucre: but of a good mind." 
1Peter5:3 Not as though ye were lords over the parishes: but that ye be an ensample to the flock. (and that with good will) 
1Peter5:4 And when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive an incorruptible crown of glory." 
1Peter5:5 Likewise ye younger submit your selves unto the elder. Submit yourselves every man, one to another. Knit yourselves together in lowliness of mind. For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble." 
1Peter5:6 Submit your selves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you, when the time is come." 
1Peter5:7 Cast all your care to him: for he careth for you. 
1Peter5:8 Be sober and watch, for your adversary the devil as a roaring lion walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:" 
1Peter5:9 whom resist steadfast in the faith, remembering that ye do but fulfil the same afflictions which are appointed to your brethren that are in the world." 
1Peter5:10 The God of all grace, which called you unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus,(everlasting glory in Christ Iesu) shall his own self after (ye have suffered) a little affliction make you perfect: shall settle, strength, and establish you." 
1Peter5:11 To him be glory(praise) and dominion for ever, and while the world endureth(for ever and ever) Amen." 
1Peter5:12 By Silvanus a faithful brother unto you (as I suppose) have I written briefly,(brevely) exhorting and testifying how that this is the true grace of God, wherein ye stand." 
1Peter5:13 The congregation that is gathered together in(companions of your election that are of) Babylon, saluteth you, and Marcus my son." 
1Peter5:14 Greet ye one another with the kiss of love. Peace be with you all which are in Christ Jesus, Amen. [Here endeth the first epistle of saint Peter]" 
2Peter1:1 Simon Peter a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them which have obtained like precious faith with us in the righteousness that cometh of our God, and of the saviour Jesus Christ.(of our God and saviour Iesus Christ)" 
2Peter1:2 Grace with you, and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord.(multiplied with you thorow the knowledge of God and of Iesus Christ our LORDE)" 
2Peter1:3 According as his godly power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and to serve God withal,(unto life and godliness) thorow the knowledge of him that hath called us by virtue and glory,(by his own glory and power)" 
2Peter1:4 by the means whereof, are given unto us excellent and most great promises, that by the help of them ye(namely, that ye by the same) should be partakers of the godly nature, in that ye fly the corruption of worldly lust.(fly the corruption of the worlde)" 
2Peter1:5 And hereunto give all diligence: in your faith minister virtue, and in virtue knowledge," 
2Peter1:6 and in knowledge temperancy, and in temperancy(in knowledge temperance, and in temperance) patience, in patience godliness," 
2Peter1:7 in godliness brotherly kindness,(love) in brotherly kindness love.(in brotherly love, generall love)" 
2Peter1:8 For if these things be among you, and are plenteous, they will make you that ye neither shall be idle nor unfruitful unto(in) the knowledge of the our Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Peter1:9 (But) He that lacketh these things is blind and gropeth for the way with his hand, and hath forgotten that he was purged(cleansed) from his old sins." 
2Peter1:10 Wherefore brethren give the more diligence for to make your calling and election sure. (by good works) For if ye do such things, ye shall never err." 
2Peter1:11 Yea and by this means an entering in shall be ministered unto you abundantly(plenteously) into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and saviour Jesus Christ. 
2Peter1:12 Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of such things, though that ye know them yourselves and be also stablished in the present truth.(trueth)" 
2Peter1:13 Notwithstanding I think it mete (as long as I am in this tabernacle) to stir(stere) you up by putting you in remembrance," 
2Peter1:14 forasmuch as I am sure how that the time is at hand that I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me." 
2Peter1:15 I will enforce therefore, that on every side ye might have wherewith to stir up the remembrance of these things after my departing.(Yet will I do my diligence, that allway after my departing ye may have wherewith to keep these things in remembrance)" 
2Peter1:16 For we followed not deceivable fables when we opened(declared) unto you the power, and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ: but with our eyes we saw his majesty." 
2Peter1:17 Even then verily when he received of God the father honour and glory, and when there came such a voice(praise, by a voice that came unto) to him from that excellent glory. This is my dear beloved son, in whom I have delight," 
2Peter1:18 this voice we heard when it came from heaven, being with him in the holy mount." 
2Peter1:19 We have also a more sure word(a right sure word) of prophecy, whereunto if ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, ye do well, until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts." 
2Peter1:20 So that ye first know this, that no prophecy in the scripture hath(is done of) any private interpretation." 
2Peter1:21 For the scripture(prophecy) came never by the will of man: but wholy men of God spake as they were moved by the wholy ghost. 
2Peter2:1 There were false prophets among the people even as there shall be false teachers among you: which privily shall bring in damnable sects, even denying the Lord that hath bought them, and bring on their own heads(upon themselves) swift damnation," 
2Peter2:2 and many shall follow their damnable ways, by which the way of truth(trueth) shall be evil spoken of," 
2Peter2:3 and thorow covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you, whose(upon whom the) judgment is not far off,(is not negligent in tarying of old) and their damnation sleepeth not." 
2Peter2:4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned but cast them down into hell, and put(delivered) them in chains of darkness (to be punished) there to be kept unto judgement:(and delivered them over to be kept unto judgment)" 
2Peter2:5 neither spared the old world: but saved Noah the eighth preacher of righteousness, and brought in the flood into(upon) the world of the ungodly," 
2Peter2:6 and turned the cities of Zodom and Gomor into ashes: overthrew them, damned them, and made of them an ensample unto all(those) that after should live ungodly." 
2Peter2:7 And just Lot vexed with the uncleanly(ungodly) conversation of the wicked, delivered he." 
2Peter2:8 For he being righteous and dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed(grieved) his righteous soul from day to day with their unrighteous(unlawful) deeds." 
2Peter2:9 The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and how to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment for to be punished:" 
2Peter2:10 namely(but specially) them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and despise the rulers. Presumptuous are they, and stubborn and fear not to speak evil of them that are in authority.(auctorite)" 
2Peter2:11 When the angels which are greater both in power and might, receive not of the Lord railing judgement against them.(bear not that blasphemous judgment against them of the LORDE)" 
2Peter2:12 But these as brute beasts, naturally made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of that they know not, and shall perish through(in) their own destruction," 
2Peter2:13 and receive the reward of unrighteousness. They count it pleasure to live deliciously for a season. Spots they are and filthiness: and of you they make a mockingstock feasting together in their deceivable ways:(Spots they are and filthiness, living at pleasure, and in deceivable ways, feasting with you:)" 
2Peter2:14 having eyes full of advoutry, and that cannot cease to sin, beguiling(entising) unstable souls. Hearts they have exercised with covetousness. They are cursed children," 
2Peter2:15 and have forsaken the right way, and are gone astray following the way of Balaam the son of Bosor, which loved the reward of unrighteousness:" 
2Peter2:16 but was rebuked of his iniquity. The tame and dumb beast, speaking with man's voice forbade the foolishness of the prophet." 
2Peter2:17 These are wells without water, and clouds carried about of a tempest, to whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever." 
2Peter2:18 For when they have spoken the swelling(proud) words of vanity,(vanity, unto the utmost) they beguile(entise) with wantonness thorow the lusts of the flesh them that were clean escaped: but now are wrapped in errors.(walk in error)" 
2Peter2:19 They promise them liberty, and are them selves the bondservants of corruption. For of whomsoever a man is overcome, unto the same is he in bondage." 
2Peter2:20 For if they, after they have escaped from the filthiness of the world thorow the knowledge of the Lord, and of the saviour Jesus Christ, they are yet tangled again therein and overcome: then is the latter end worse with them than the beginning." 
2Peter2:21 For it had been better for them, not to have known the way of righteousness, than after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment given unto them." 
2Peter2:22 It is happened unto them according to the true proverb: The dog is turned to his vomit again, and the sow after she is(that was) washed, is returned to her wallowing in the mire." 
2Peter3:1 This is the second pistel that I now write unto you, my dearly beloved, wherewith I stir(stere) up and warn your pure minds," 
2Peter3:2 to call to remembrance the words which were told before of the holy prophets, and also the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour." 
2Peter3:3 This first understand, that there shall come in the last days mockers (in deceitfulness) which will walk after their own lusts" 
2Peter3:4 and say: Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers died all things continue in the same estate wherein they were at the beginning.(begginning of the creature) 
2Peter3:5 This they know not (and that willingly)(willfully) how that the heavens a great while ago were, and the earth that was in the water, appeared up out of the water by the word of God:" 
2Peter3:6 by the which things the world that then was perished overflowen(that time destroyed by the same) with the flood.(water.) 
2Peter3:7 But the heavens verily and earth which are now, are kept by the same word in store, and reserved unto fire, against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.(damnation of ungodly men)" 
2Peter3:8 Dearly beloved be not ignorant of this one thing, how that one day is with the Lord, as a thousand year, and a thousand year as one day." 
2Peter3:9 The Lord is not slack to fulfil his promise as some men count slackness: but is patient to us ward and would have no man lost, but would receive all men to repentance.(and will not that any man should be lost, but that every man should amend himself)" 
2Peter3:10 Nevertheless the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which day, the heavens shall perish with terrible(a great) noise, and the elements shall melt with heat, and the earth with the works that are therein shall burn." 
2Peter3:11 If all these things shall perish, what manner persons ought ye to be in holy conversation, and godliness:" 
2Peter3:12 looking for, and hasting unto the coming of the day of God,(coming of the LORDE) in which the heavens shall perish with fire, and the elements shall be consumed(elements shall melt) with heat." 
2Peter3:13 Nevertheless we look for a new heaven, and a new earth, according to his promise, wherein dwelleth righteousness." 
2Peter3:14 Wherefore dearly beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot and undefiled:" 
2Peter3:15 And suppose that the long suffering of the Lord is health,(salvation) even as our dearly beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given unto him, wrote to you," 
2Peter3:16 yea, almost in every pistel(almost in very pistle) speaking of such things: among which are many things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned, and unstable pervert, as they do other scriptures unto their own destruction.(also, to their own damnation)" 
2Peter3:17 Ye therefore beloved seeing ye are warned;(know it beforehand) Beware lest ye be also plucked(plucte) away with the error of the wicked, and (fall from your) own steadfastness:" 
2Peter3:18 but grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord, and saviour Jesus Christ. To whom be glory both now and for ever, Amen. [Here endeth the second epistle of saint Peter]" 
1John1:1 That which was from the beginning declare we unto you, which we have heard which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the word of life." 
1John1:1 That which was from the beginning declare we unto you, which we have heard which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the word of life." 
1John1:2 For the life appeared, and we have seen, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal(everlasting) life, which was with the father, and appeared unto us." 
1John1:2 For the life appeared, and we have seen, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal(everlasting) life, which was with the father, and appeared unto us." 
1John1:3 That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you that ye may have fellowship with us, and that our fellowship may be with the father, and his son Jesus Christ." 
1John1:3 That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you that ye may have fellowship with us, and that our fellowship may be with the father, and his son Jesus Christ." 
1John1:4 And this write we(these things we write) unto you, that (ye may rejoice, and that) our(your) joy may be full." 
1John1:4 And this write we(these things we write) unto you, that (ye may rejoice, and that) our(your) joy may be full." 
1John1:5 And this is the tidings which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all." 
1John1:5 And this is the tidings which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all." 
1John1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with him, and yet walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:" 
1John1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with him, and yet walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:" 
1John1:7 but and if we walk in light even as he is in light, then have we fellowship with him,(together) and the blood of (Iesus) Christ his son, cleanseth us from all sin." 
1John1:7 but and if we walk in light even as he is in light, then have we fellowship with him,(together) and the blood of (Iesus) Christ his son, cleanseth us from all sin." 
1John1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and truth is not in us." 
1John1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and truth is not in us." 
1John1:9 If we knowledge our sins, he is faithful and just, to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:9 If we knowledge our sins, he is faithful and just, to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:10 If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us." 
1John1:10 If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us." 
1John2:1 My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye should not sin: and(sin not:) if(though) any man sin, yet we have an Advocate with the father, (even) Jesus Christ, which is righteous:" 
1John2:1 My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye should not sin: and(sin not:) if(though) any man sin, yet we have an Advocate with the father, (even) Jesus Christ, which is righteous:" 
1John2:2 and he it is that obtaineth grace(the satisfaction) for our sins: (and) not for our sins only: but also for the sins of all the world. 
1John2:2 and he it is that obtaineth grace(the satisfaction) for our sins: (and) not for our sins only: but also for the sins of all the world. 
1John2:3 And hereby we know that we have known him,(And hereby we are sure that we know him) if we keep his commandments." 
1John2:3 And hereby we know that we have known him,(And hereby we are sure that we know him) if we keep his commandments." 
1John2:4 He that saith I know him, and (yet) keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the verity(trueth) is not in him." 
1John2:4 He that saith I know him, and (yet) keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the verity(trueth) is not in him." 
1John2:5 Whosoever(He that) keepeth his word, in him (verily) is the love of God perfect in deed. And thereby(hereby) know we that we are in him." 
1John2:5 Whosoever(He that) keepeth his word, in him (verily) is the love of God perfect in deed. And thereby(hereby) know we that we are in him." 
1John2:6 He that saith he bideth in him, ought to walk even as he walked." 
1John2:6 He that saith he bideth in him, ought to walk even as he walked." 
1John2:7 Brethren I write no new commandment unto you: but that(an) old commandment which ye heard from(had at) the beginning. The(For an) old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning. 
1John2:7 Brethren I write no new commandment unto you: but that(an) old commandment which ye heard from(had at) the beginning. The(For an) old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning. 
1John2:8 Again, a new commandment I write unto you, a thing that(which) is true in him, and also in you: for the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth." 
1John2:8 Again, a new commandment I write unto you, a thing that(which) is true in him, and also in you: for the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth." 
1John2:9 He that saith how that he is in the light, and yet hateth his brother, is in darkness even until this time." 
1John2:9 He that saith how that he is in the light, and yet hateth his brother, is in darkness even until this time." 
1John2:10 He that loveth his brother, abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of evil(offending) in him. (And)" 
1John2:10 He that loveth his brother, abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of evil(offending) in him. (And)" 
1John2:11 He that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness: and cannot tell(knoweth not) whither he goeth, because that(For) darkness hath blinded his eyes." 
1John2:11 He that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness: and cannot tell(knoweth not) whither he goeth, because that(For) darkness hath blinded his eyes." 
1John2:12 Babes(little children) I write unto you how that your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. 
1John2:12 Babes(little children) I write unto you how that your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. 
1John2:13 I write unto you fathers, how that ye have known him that was from the beginning. I write unto you young men, how that ye have overcome the wicked. I write unto you little(young) children, how that ye have known(know) the father." 
1John2:13 I write unto you fathers, how that ye have known him that was from the beginning. I write unto you young men, how that ye have overcome the wicked. I write unto you little(young) children, how that ye have known(know) the father." 
1John2:14 I write unto you fathers, how that ye have known him that was from the beginning. I write unto you young men, how that ye are(be) strong: and the word of God abideth(dwelleth) in you, and (that) ye have overcome that(the) wicked." 
1John2:14 I write unto you fathers, how that ye have known him that was from the beginning. I write unto you young men, how that ye are(be) strong: and the word of God abideth(dwelleth) in you, and (that) ye have overcome that(the) wicked." 
1John2:15 See that ye love not the world, neither(nor) the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the father is not in him." 
1John2:15 See that ye love not the world, neither(nor) the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the father is not in him." 
1John2:16 For all that is in the world (as the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of goods)(pride of life) is(are) not of the father: but (are) of the world." 
1John2:16 For all that is in the world (as the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of goods)(pride of life) is(are) not of the father: but (are) of the world." 
1John2:17 And the world vanisheth(passeth) away, and the lust thereof: but he that fulfilleth(doeth) the will of God, abideth ever." 
1John2:17 And the world vanisheth(passeth) away, and the lust thereof: but he that fulfilleth(doeth) the will of God, abideth ever." 
1John2:18 Little children it is (now) the last time,(hour) and as ye have heard how the(that) antichrist shall come: even (so) now are there many antichrists come already, whereby we know that it is the last time.(hour.)" 
1John2:18 Little children it is (now) the last time,(hour) and as ye have heard how the(that) antichrist shall come: even (so) now are there many antichrists come already, whereby we know that it is the last time.(hour.)" 
1John2:19 They went out from(of) us but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But that fortuned that it might appear, that they were not of us.(But they may be known, how that they are not all of us)" 
1John2:19 They went out from(of) us but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But that fortuned that it might appear, that they were not of us.(But they may be known, how that they are not all of us)" 
1John2:20 And(But) ye have an ointment of the holy ghost,(anointing of him that is holy) and ye know all things." 
1John2:20 And(But) ye have an ointment of the holy ghost,(anointing of him that is holy) and ye know all things." 
1John2:21 I wrote not unto you, as though ye knew not the truth:(trouth) but as though ye knew it,(unto them them that know it) and know also (how) that no lie cometh(is) of truth.(trouth)" 
1John2:21 I wrote not unto you, as though ye knew not the truth:(trouth) but as though ye knew it,(unto them them that know it) and know also (how) that no lie cometh(is) of truth.(trouth)" 
1John2:22 Who is a liar: but he that denieth that Jesus is Christ? he(The same) is the antichrist that denieth the father and the son. 
1John2:22 Who is a liar: but he that denieth that Jesus is Christ? he(The same) is the antichrist that denieth the father and the son. 
1John2:23 Whosoever denieth the son, the same hath not the father. (he that knowledgeth the sonne, hath the father also)" 
1John2:23 Whosoever denieth the son, the same hath not the father. (he that knowledgeth the sonne, hath the father also)" 
1John2:24 Let therefore abide in you that same which ye heard from(at) the beginning. If that which ye heard from(at) the beginning shall remain in you, (then) ye also shall continue in the son, and in the father." 
1John2:24 Let therefore abide in you that same which ye heard from(at) the beginning. If that which ye heard from(at) the beginning shall remain in you, (then) ye also shall continue in the son, and in the father." 
1John2:25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal(everlasting) life." 
1John2:25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal(everlasting) life." 
1John2:26 This(These things) have I written unto you, as concerning(because of) them that deceive you." 
1John2:26 This(These things) have I written unto you, as concerning(because of) them that deceive you." 
1John2:27 And the anointing which ye have received of him dwelleth in you. And ye need not that any man teach you: but as that(the) anointing teacheth you all things, and is true, and is no lie: and as it taught you, even so bide therein." 
1John2:27 And the anointing which ye have received of him dwelleth in you. And ye need not that any man teach you: but as that(the) anointing teacheth you all things, and is true, and is no lie: and as it taught you, even so bide therein." 
1John2:28 And now babes(little children) abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may be bold,(have confidence) and not be made ashamed of him at his coming." 
1John2:28 And now babes(little children) abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may be bold,(have confidence) and not be made ashamed of him at his coming." 
1John2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, know also that he which followeth(doth)(that all that work) righteousness, is(are) born of him." 
1John2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, know also that he which followeth(doth)(that all that work) righteousness, is(are) born of him." 
1John3:1 Behold what love the father hath shewed on us, that we should be called (and be in deed) the sons(children) of God. For this cause the world knoweth you not because it knoweth not him." 
1John3:1 Behold what love the father hath shewed on us, that we should be called (and be in deed) the sons(children) of God. For this cause the world knoweth you not because it knoweth not him." 
1John3:2 Dearly beloved, now are we the sons(chilren) of God, and(though) yet it hath(doth) not appear(appeareth not) what we shall be. But we know that when it shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is." 
1John3:2 Dearly beloved, now are we the sons(chilren) of God, and(though) yet it hath(doth) not appear(appeareth not) what we shall be. But we know that when it shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is." 
1John3:3 And every man that hath(all that have) this hope in him, purgeth himself,(themselves) even as he is pure." 
1John3:3 And every man that hath(all that have) this hope in him, purgeth himself,(themselves) even as he is pure." 
1John3:4 Whosoever committeth(All that commit) sin, committeth unrighteousness also, for sin is unrighteousness." 
1John3:4 Whosoever committeth(All that commit) sin, committeth unrighteousness also, for sin is unrighteousness." 
1John3:5 And ye know that he appeared to take away our sins, and in him is no sin.(there is no sin in him)" 
1John3:5 And ye know that he appeared to take away our sins, and in him is no sin.(there is no sin in him)" 
1John3:6 As many as bide(All that abide) in him, sin not: whosoever sinneth(And all that sin) hath not seen him, neither hath known him." 
1John3:6 As many as bide(All that abide) in him, sin not: whosoever sinneth(And all that sin) hath not seen him, neither hath known him." 
1John3:7 Babes(Little children) let no man deceive(beguile) you; He that doth(worketh) righteousness, is righteous, even as he is righteous.(rightwise.)" 
1John3:7 Babes(Little children) let no man deceive(beguile) you; He that doth(worketh) righteousness, is righteous, even as he is righteous.(rightwise.)" 
1John3:8 He that committeth sin is of the devil: for the devil sinneth since the beginning. For this purpose(But for this cause) appeared the son of God, to loose(even to destroy) the works of the devil." 
1John3:8 He that committeth sin is of the devil: for the devil sinneth since the beginning. For this purpose(But for this cause) appeared the son of God, to loose(even to destroy) the works of the devil." 
1John3:9 Whosoever is born of God, sinneth not:(All that are born of God do no sin) for his seed remaineth(abideth) in him,(them) and he(they) cannot sin, because he is(they be) born of God." 
1John3:9 Whosoever is born of God, sinneth not:(All that are born of God do no sin) for his seed remaineth(abideth) in him,(them) and he(they) cannot sin, because he is(they be) born of God." 
1John3:10 In this(And hereby) are the children(sons) of God known, and (also) the children(sons) of the devil. Whosoever doth(All that work) not righteousness, is(are) not of God, neither(nor) he that loveth not his brother." 
1John3:10 In this(And hereby) are the children(sons) of God known, and (also) the children(sons) of the devil. Whosoever doth(All that work) not righteousness, is(are) not of God, neither(nor) he that loveth not his brother." 
1John3:11 For this is the tidings, that ye heard from(at) the beginning, that we should love one another:" 
1John3:11 For this is the tidings, that ye heard from(at) the beginning, that we should love one another:" 
1John3:12 (and) not (be) as Cain which was of the wicked(devil) and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? because(For) his own works(deeds) were evil, and his brother's good.(righteous.)" 
1John3:12 (and) not (be) as Cain which was of the wicked(devil) and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? because(For) his own works(deeds) were evil, and his brother's good.(righteous.)" 
1John3:13 Marvel not my brethren if(though) the world hate you. 
1John3:13 Marvel not my brethren if(though) the world hate you. 
1John3:14 We know that we are translated from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother, abideth in death." 
1John3:14 We know that we are translated from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother, abideth in death." 
1John3:15 Whosoever(All that) hateth his brother, is a man slayer.(murderers) And ye know that no man slayer(murderer) hath eternal life abiding in him." 
1John3:15 Whosoever(All that) hateth his brother, is a man slayer.(murderers) And ye know that no man slayer(murderer) hath eternal life abiding in him." 
1John3:16 Hereby perceive we(are we assured of) love: (because) that he gave(left) his life for us: And (therefore) we ought also to give our lives for the(our) brethren. 
1John3:16 Hereby perceive we(are we assured of) love: (because) that he gave(left) his life for us: And (therefore) we ought also to give our lives for the(our) brethren. 
1John3:17 Whosoever(He then that) hath this world's goods(the substance of the world) and seeth his brother in necessity,(have need:) and shutteth up his compassion from him: how dwelleth the love of God in him?" 
1John3:17 Whosoever(He then that) hath this world's goods(the substance of the world) and seeth his brother in necessity,(have need:) and shutteth up his compassion from him: how dwelleth the love of God in him?" 
1John3:18 My babes,(little children) let us not love in word, neither in(nor with the) tongue: but with (the) deed, and in verity:(of a truth)" 
1John3:18 My babes,(little children) let us not love in word, neither in(nor with the) tongue: but with (the) deed, and in verity:(of a truth)" 
1John3:19 And(for) thereby we know that we are of the verity,(be of the truth) and will(can) before him put(quiet) our hearts out of doubt:(and so shall we certify our hearts in his sight.)" 
1John3:19 And(for) thereby we know that we are of the verity,(be of the truth) and will(can) before him put(quiet) our hearts out of doubt:(and so shall we certify our hearts in his sight.)" 
1John3:20 For(But) (if our hearts condemn us) God is greater than our hearts, and knoweth all things." 
1John3:20 For(But) (if our hearts condemn us) God is greater than our hearts, and knoweth all things." 
1John3:21 Tenderly(Dearly) beloved, if our hearts condemn us not, then have we trust to God ward:" 
1John3:21 Tenderly(Dearly) beloved, if our hearts condemn us not, then have we trust to God ward:" 
1John3:22 and whatsoever we ask, (that) we shall receive of him: because we keep his commandments, and do those things which are pleasing in his sight." 
1John3:22 and whatsoever we ask, (that) we shall receive of him: because we keep his commandments, and do those things which are pleasing in his sight." 
1John3:23 And this is his commandment, that we believe (on the name of) his son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave commandment." 
1John3:23 And this is his commandment, that we believe (on the name of) his son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave commandment." 
1John3:24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth(abideth) in him, and he in him. And hereby(thereby) we know that there abideth(dwelleth) in us of the(his) spirit which he gave us." 
1John3:24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth(abideth) in him, and he in him. And hereby(thereby) we know that there abideth(dwelleth) in us of the(his) spirit which he gave us." 
1John4:1 Dearly(Ye) beloved believe not every spirit: but prove the spirits whether they are(be) of God, or no:(or not:) for many false prophets are gone out in to the world." 
1John4:1 Dearly(Ye) beloved believe not every spirit: but prove the spirits whether they are(be) of God, or no:(or not:) for many false prophets are gone out in to the world." 
1John4:2 Hereby shall ye know the spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is of God." 
1John4:2 Hereby shall ye know the spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is of God." 
1John4:3 And every spirit which(that) confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is not of God. And this(the same) is that spirit of antichrist, of whom ye have heard, how that he should come: and even now already is he in the world." 
1John4:3 And every spirit which(that) confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is not of God. And this(the same) is that spirit of antichrist, of whom ye have heard, how that he should come: and even now already is he in the world." 
1John4:4 Little children, ye are of God, and have overcome them: for greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world." 
1John4:4 Little children, ye are of God, and have overcome them: for greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world." 
1John4:5 They are(be) of the world, (and) therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth(hearkeneth)(attendeth unto) them." 
1John4:5 They are(be) of the world, (and) therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth(hearkeneth)(attendeth unto) them." 
1John4:6 We are(be) of God. (and) He that knoweth God heareth(hearkeneth unto) us: (and) He that is not of God, heareth us not. (And) Hereby know we the spirit of verity,(trouth) and the spirit of error." 
1John4:6 We are(be) of God. (and) He that knoweth God heareth(hearkeneth unto) us: (and) He that is not of God, heareth us not. (And) Hereby know we the spirit of verity,(trouth) and the spirit of error." 
1John4:7 Dearly beloved, let us love one another: for love cometh(is) of God. And every one that loveth is(all that love are) born of God, and knoweth God." 
1John4:7 Dearly beloved, let us love one another: for love cometh(is) of God. And every one that loveth is(all that love are) born of God, and knoweth God." 
1John4:8 (And) He that loveth not, hath not known(knoweth not) God: for God is love." 
1John4:8 (And) He that loveth not, hath not known(knoweth not) God: for God is love." 
1John4:9 In this(Herein) appeared the love of God to us ward, because that God sent his only begotten son into the world, that we might(should) live thorow him." 
1John4:9 In this(Herein) appeared the love of God to us ward, because that God sent his only begotten son into the world, that we might(should) live thorow him." 
1John4:10 Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to make agreement(a satisfaction) for our sins." 
1John4:10 Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to make agreement(a satisfaction) for our sins." 
1John4:11 Dearly beloved if God so loved us, (then) we ought also to love one another." 
1John4:11 Dearly beloved if God so loved us, (then) we ought also to love one another." 
1John4:12 No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfect in us." 
1John4:12 No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfect in us." 
1John4:13 Hereby know we, that we dwell(abide) in him, and he in us: because(For) he hath given us of his spirit." 
1John4:13 Hereby know we, that we dwell(abide) in him, and he in us: because(For) he hath given us of his spirit." 
1John4:14 And we have seen and do testify that the father (hath) sent the (his) son, (which is) the saviour of the world." 
1John4:14 And we have seen and do testify that the father (hath) sent the (his) son, (which is) the saviour of the world." 
1John4:15 Whosoever confesseth that Jesus is the son of God, in him dwelleth God, and he in God." 
1John4:15 Whosoever confesseth that Jesus is the son of God, in him dwelleth God, and he in God." 
1John4:16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth(abideth) in love dwelleth(abideth) in God, and God in him." 
1John4:16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth(abideth) in love dwelleth(abideth) in God, and God in him." 
1John4:17 Herein(Herefor) is the love perfect in(with) us, that we should have trust(confidence)(a free boldness) in the day of judgment, that(For) as he is, even so are we in this world." 
1John4:17 Herein(Herefor) is the love perfect in(with) us, that we should have trust(confidence)(a free boldness) in the day of judgment, that(For) as he is, even so are we in this world." 
1John4:18 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out all fear, for fear hath painfulness. He (therefor,) that feareth is not perfect in love." 
1John4:18 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out all fear, for fear hath painfulness. He (therefor,) that feareth is not perfect in love." 
1John4:19 We love him, for(becaude) he loved us first." 
1John4:19 We love him, for(becaude) he loved us first." 
1John4:20 If a man say, I love God, and yet hate his brother, he is a liar. (For) How can he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, love God whom he hath not seen?" 
1John4:20 If a man say, I love God, and yet hate his brother, he is a liar. (For) How can he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, love God whom he hath not seen?" 
1John4:21 And this commandment have we of him: that he which loveth God, should love his brother also." 
1John4:21 And this commandment have we of him: that he which loveth God, should love his brother also." 
1John5:1 Whosoever believeth(All that believe) that Jesus is Christ, is(are) born of God. And every one(all) that loveth him which begat, loveth him also which was begotten of him." 
1John5:1 Whosoever believeth(All that believe) that Jesus is Christ, is(are) born of God. And every one(all) that loveth him which begat, loveth him also which was begotten of him." 
1John5:2 In this we know that we love the children(sons) of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments." 
1John5:2 In this we know that we love the children(sons) of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments." 
1John5:3 This is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous." 
1John5:3 This is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous." 
1John5:4 For all that is born of God, overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith." 
1John5:4 For all that is born of God, overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith." 
1John5:5 Who is it that overcometh the world: but he which believeth that Jesus is the son of God? 
1John5:5 Who is it that overcometh the world: but he which believeth that Jesus is the son of God? 
1John5:6 This Jesus Christ is he that came by water and blood, not by water only: but by water and blood. And it is the spirit that beareth witness,(testifieth) because the spirit is truth.(for the spirit is trueth)" 
1John5:6 This Jesus Christ is he that came by water and blood, not by water only: but by water and blood. And it is the spirit that beareth witness,(testifieth) because the spirit is truth.(for the spirit is trueth)" 
1John5:7 (For there are three which(that) bear record(witness) in heaven, the father, the word, and the wholy ghost. And these three are one.)" 
1John5:7 (For there are three which(that) bear record(witness) in heaven, the father, the word, and the wholy ghost. And these three are one.)" 
1John5:8 And(For) there are three which(that) bear record (in earth:) the spirit, and water, and blood: and these three are one." 
1John5:8 And(For) there are three which(that) bear record (in earth:) the spirit, and water, and blood: and these three are one." 
1John5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God, (that is greater) which he testified of his son.(that God hath born of his son.)" 
1John5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God, (that is greater) which he testified of his son.(that God hath born of his son.)" 
1John5:10 He that believeth on(in) the son of God hath the witness in himself. He that believeth not God, hath made(maketh) him a liar, because he believed not the record that God gave of his son.(because he doth not believe the witness that God hath testified of his son)" 
1John5:10 He that believeth on(in) the son of God hath the witness in himself. He that believeth not God, hath made(maketh) him a liar, because he believed not the record that God gave of his son.(because he doth not believe the witness that God hath testified of his son)" 
1John5:11 And this is that record,(the witness) how that God hath given unto us eternal(everlasting) life, and this life is in his son." 
1John5:11 And this is that record,(the witness) how that God hath given unto us eternal(everlasting) life, and this life is in his son." 
1John5:12 He that hath the son, hath life: and he that hath not the son of God, hath not life." 
1John5:12 He that hath the son, hath life: and he that hath not the son of God, hath not life." 
1John5:13 These things have I written unto you that believe on(in) the name of the son of God, that ye may know how that ye have eternal(everlasting) life, and that ye may believe on(in) the name of the son of God." 
1John5:13 These things have I written unto you that believe on(in) the name of the son of God, that ye may know how that ye have eternal(everlasting) life, and that ye may believe on(in) the name of the son of God." 
1John5:14 And this is the trust(confidence)(free boldness) that we have in(toward) him: that if we ask any thing(ought) according to his will he heareth us. 
1John5:14 And this is the trust(confidence)(free boldness) that we have in(toward) him: that if we ask any thing(ought) according to his will he heareth us. 
1John5:15 And if we know that he hear us whatsoever we ask, we know that we shall have the petitions that we desire of him." 
1John5:15 And if we know that he hear us whatsoever we ask, we know that we shall have the petitions that we desire of him." 
1John5:16 If any man see his brother sin a sin that is not unto(to) death, let him ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death, (and) for which say I not that a man should pray." 
1John5:16 If any man see his brother sin a sin that is not unto(to) death, let him ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death, (and) for which say I not that a man should pray." 
1John5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is (a) sin not unto(to) death." 
1John5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is (a) sin not unto(to) death." 
1John5:18 We know that whosoever is(all that are) born of God, sinneth not:(sin not) but he that is begotten(born) of God keepeth himself, and that wicked toucheth(twicheth) him not." 
1John5:18 We know that whosoever is(all that are) born of God, sinneth not:(sin not) but he that is begotten(born) of God keepeth himself, and that wicked toucheth(twicheth) him not." 
1John5:19 We know that we are(be) of God, and that the world is altogether(all together) set on wickedness.(mischief)" 
1John5:19 We know that we are(be) of God, and that the world is altogether(all together) set on wickedness.(mischief)" 
1John5:20 We know that the son of God is come, and hath given us a mind(understanding) to know him which(that) is true: and we are in him that is true,(be in the truth) through(thorow) his son Jesu Christ. This same(He) is very God, and eternal(everlasting) life." 
1John5:20 We know that the son of God is come, and hath given us a mind(understanding) to know him which(that) is true: and we are in him that is true,(be in the truth) through(thorow) his son Jesu Christ. This same(He) is very God, and eternal(everlasting) life." 
1John5:21 Babes keep yourselves from images.(Little children beware of images) Amen. [Here ends the first epistle of saint John] 
1John5:21 Babes keep yourselves from images.(Little children beware of images) Amen. [Here ends the first epistle of saint John] 
2John1:1 The senior(elder) to the elect lady and her children which I love in the truth: And not I only, but also all that have known the truth," 
2John1:1 The senior(elder) to the elect lady and her children which I love in the truth: And not I only, but also all that have known the truth," 
2John1:2 for the truth's sake, which remaineth(dwelleth) in us, and shall be in us for ever." 
2John1:2 for the truth's sake, which remaineth(dwelleth) in us, and shall be in us for ever." 
2John1:3 With you be grace, mercy, and peace from God the father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ the son of the father, in truth and love." 
2John1:3 With you be grace, mercy, and peace from God the father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ the son of the father, in truth and love." 
2John1:4 I rejoiced greatly, that I found of thy children walking in trough,(trouth)(trueth) as we have received a commandment of the father." 
2John1:4 I rejoiced greatly, that I found of thy children walking in trough,(trouth)(trueth) as we have received a commandment of the father." 
2John1:5 And now beseech(beseek) I thee lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that same, which we had from the beginning, that we should love one another." 
2John1:5 And now beseech(beseek) I thee lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that same, which we had from the beginning, that we should love one another." 
2John1:6 And this is the love, that we should walk after his commandments. This commandment is (that as ye have heard from the beginning) ye should walk in it.(walk therein)" 
2John1:6 And this is the love, that we should walk after his commandments. This commandment is (that as ye have heard from the beginning) ye should walk in it.(walk therein)" 
2John1:7 For many deceivers are entered into(are come in to) the world, which confess not that Jesus Christ is como(returning) in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist." 
2John1:7 For many deceivers are entered into(are come in to) the world, which confess not that Jesus Christ is como(returning) in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist." 
2John1:8 Look on yourselves, that we loose not that we have wrought: but that we may have(receive) a full reward." 
2John1:8 Look on yourselves, that we loose not that we have wrought: but that we may have(receive) a full reward." 
2John1:9 Whosoever transgresseth and bideth not(abideth not) in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that endureth(abideth) in the doctrine of Christ, hath both the father, and the son." 
2John1:9 Whosoever transgresseth and bideth not(abideth not) in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that endureth(abideth) in the doctrine of Christ, hath both the father, and the son." 
2John1:10 If there come any unto you and bring not this learning,(doctrine) him receive not to house: neither bid him God speed.(nether salute him)" 
2John1:10 If there come any unto you and bring not this learning,(doctrine) him receive not to house: neither bid him God speed.(nether salute him)" 
2John1:11 For he that biddeth him God speed,(saluteth him) is partaker of his evil deeds. (Behold, I have told you before, that ye should not be ashamed in the day of the lorde.)" 
2John1:11 For he that biddeth him God speed,(saluteth him) is partaker of his evil deeds. (Behold, I have told you before, that ye should not be ashamed in the day of the lorde.)" 
2John1:12 I had many things to write unto you, nevertheless I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak with you mouth to mouth,(mought to mouth) that our joy may be full." 
2John1:12 I had many things to write unto you, nevertheless I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak with you mouth to mouth,(mought to mouth) that our joy may be full." 
2John1:13 The sons(children) of thy elect sister greet(salute) thee Amen. [Here ends the second epistle of saint John] 
2John1:13 The sons(children) of thy elect sister greet(salute) thee Amen. [Here ends the second epistle of saint John] 
3John1:1 The senior(elder) unto the beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth." 
3John1:1 The senior(elder) unto the beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth." 
3John1:2 Wellbeloved I wish in all things that thou prosperedest and faredest well, even as thy soul prospereth." 
3John1:2 Wellbeloved I wish in all things that thou prosperedest and faredest well, even as thy soul prospereth." 
3John1:3 I rejoiced greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth(trueth) that is in thee, how thou in troth walkest.(walkest in trouthe.)" 
3John1:3 I rejoiced greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth(trueth) that is in thee, how thou in troth walkest.(walkest in trouthe.)" 
3John1:4 I have no greater joy than for to hear how that my sons walk in verity.(trueth) 
3John1:4 I have no greater joy than for to hear how that my sons walk in verity.(trueth) 
3John1:5 Dearly beloved thou dost faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers," 
3John1:5 Dearly beloved thou dost faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers," 
3John1:6 which bare witness of thy love before all the congregation. Which brethren when thou bringest forwards on their journey (as it beseemeth God) thou shalt do well: 
3John1:6 which bare witness of thy love before all the congregation. Which brethren when thou bringest forwards on their journey (as it beseemeth God) thou shalt do well: 
3John1:7 because that for his name's sake they went forth, and took nothing of the gentiles." 
3John1:7 because that for his name's sake they went forth, and took nothing of the gentiles." 
3John1:8 We therefore ought to receive such, that we also might be helpers to the truth." 
3John1:8 We therefore ought to receive such, that we also might be helpers to the truth." 
3John1:9 I wrote unto the congregation: but Diotrephes which loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not," 
3John1:9 I wrote unto the congregation: but Diotrephes which loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not," 
3John1:10 wherefore if I come I will declare his deeds which he doeth jesting on us with malicious words, neither is therewith content. Not only he himself receiveth not the brethren: but also he forbiddeth them that would, and thrusteth them out of the congregation." 
3John1:10 wherefore if I come I will declare his deeds which he doeth jesting on us with malicious words, neither is therewith content. Not only he himself receiveth not the brethren: but also he forbiddeth them that would, and thrusteth them out of the congregation." 
3John1:11 Dearly beloved counterfeit(follow) not that which is evil, but that which is good: He that doeth well is of God: but he that doeth evil seeth not God." 
3John1:11 Dearly beloved counterfeit(follow) not that which is evil, but that which is good: He that doeth well is of God: but he that doeth evil seeth not God." 
3John1:12 Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth. Yea and we ourselves also bear record, and ye know that our record is true." 
3John1:12 Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth. Yea and we ourselves also bear record, and ye know that our record is true." 
3John1:13 I have many things to write: But I will not with pen and ink write unto thee. 
3John1:13 I have many things to write: But I will not with pen and ink write unto thee. 
3John1:14 For I trust I (shortly see thee, and we) shall speak mouth to mouth. Peace be with thee. The lovers salute thee. Greet the lovers by name. [Here endeth the third epistle of saint John]" 
3John1:14 For I trust I (shortly see thee, and we) shall speak mouth to mouth. Peace be with thee. The lovers salute thee. Greet the lovers by name. [Here endeth the third epistle of saint John]" 
Jude1:1 Judas the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James. To them which are called and sanctified in God the father, and preserved in Christ Jesus.(Iesu Christ)" 
Jude1:1 Judas the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James. To them which are called and sanctified in God the father, and preserved in Christ Jesus.(Iesu Christ)" 
Jude1:2 Mercy unto you, and peace and love be multiplied." 
Jude1:3 Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common health:(salvation) it was needful for me to write unto you, to exhort you, that ye should continually labour in the faith, which was once given unto the saints." 
Jude1:4 For there are certain craftily crept in, of which it was written aforetime unto such judgement. They are ungodly, and turn the grace of our Lord God unto wantonness; And deny God the only Lord, and our Lord Jesus Christ." 
Jude1:5 My mind is therefore to put you in remembrance, forasmuch as ye once know this, how that the Lord (after that he had delivered the people out of Egypt) destroyed them which afterward believed not:" 
Jude1:6 The angels also, which kept not their first estate: but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day:" 
Jude1:7 even as Zodom,(Sodom) and Gomor, and the cities about them (which in like manner defiled themselves, with fornication, and followed strange flesh) are set forth for an example, and suffer the vengeance of eternal fire." 
Jude1:8 Likewise these dreamers defile the flesh, despise rulers, and speak evil of them that are in authority." 
Jude1:9 Yet Michael the archangel (when he strove against the devil, and disputed the body of Moses) durst not give railing sentence, but said: The Lord rebuke thee." 
Jude1:10 But these speak evil of those things which they know not. In those(And what) things which they know naturally (as beasts which are without reason) they corrupt themselves.(In those things which they know they corrupt them selves.) 
Jude1:11 Woe be unto them, for they have followed the way of Cain, and are spilt in (utterly given to) the error of Balaam for lucre's sake, and are cast away(and perish) in the treason of Core." 
Jude1:12 These are spots which of your kindness feast together, without fear, feeding themselves. Clouds they are without water, carried about of winds: Trees rotten in autumn, unfruitfull,(and trees without fruit at gathering time) twice dead, and plucked up by the roots.(rotes)" 
Jude1:13 They are raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame. They are wandering stars, to whom is reserved the mist of darkness for ever." 
Jude1:14 Enoch the seventh from Adam prophesied before of such saying: Behold, the Lord shall come with thousands of saints," 
Jude1:15 to give judgement against all men, and to rebuke all that are ungodly among them, of all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed, and of all their cruel speakings, which ungodly sinners have spoken against him." 
Jude1:16 These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lusts, whose mouth's speak proud things. They have men in great reverence because of advantage." 
Jude1:17 But ye beloved remember the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Jude1:18 how that they told you that there should be beguilers in the last time, which should walk after their own ungodly lusts." 
Jude1:19 These are makers of sects, natural,(fleshly) having no spirit." 
Jude1:20 But ye dearly beloved, edify yourselves in your most wholy(holy) faith, praying in the wholy(holy) ghost," 
Jude1:21 and keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, unto eternal life." 
Jude1:22 And have compassion on some, separating them:" 
Jude1:23 and other save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, (and have compassion on the other) and hate the filthy vesture of the flesh." 
Jude1:24 Unto him that is able to keep you, that ye fall(faule) not, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with joy, (at the coming of oure lorde Iesu Christ)" 
Jude1:25 that is to say, to God our saviour (thorow Iesus Christ oure lord) which only is wise, be glory, majesty, dominion, and power, (before all worldes) now and for ever Amen. [Here ends the epistle of Judas]" 
Revelation1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christe, which God gave unto him, for to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and shewed by his angel unto his servant John," 
Revelation1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christe, which God gave unto him, for to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and shewed by his angel unto his servant John," 
Revelation1:2 which bare record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw." 
Revelation1:3 Happy is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of the prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein. For the time is at hand." 
Revelation1:4 John to the seven congregations in Asia. Grace be with you and peace, from him which is and which was, and which is to come: and from the seven spirits which are present before his throne," 
Revelation1:4 John to the seven congregations in Asia. Grace be with you and peace, from him which is and which was, and which is to come: and from the seven spirits which are present before his throne," 
Revelation1:5 and from Jesus Christ which is a faithful witness, and first begotten of the dead: and Lord over the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood," 
Revelation1:6 and made us kings and priests unto God his father, be glory, and dominion for evermore amen." 
Revelation1:7 Behold he cometh with clouds, and all eyes shall see him: and they also which pierced him. And all kindreds of the earth shall wail. (over him) Even so amen." 
Revelation1:8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord almighty, which is and which was and which is to come." 
Revelation1:9 John your brother and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience which is in Jesu Christ, was in the isle of Pathmos for the word of God, and for the witnessing of Jesu Christ." 
Revelation1:9 John your brother and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience which is in Jesu Christ, was in the isle of Pathmos for the word of God, and for the witnessing of Jesu Christ." 
Revelation1:10 I was in the spirit on a son day, and heard behind me, a great voice, as it had been of a trompe" 
Revelation1:11 saying: I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. That thou seest write in a book, and send it unto the congregations which are in Asia, unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thiatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicia." 
Revelation1:12 And I turned back to see the voice that spake to me. And when I was turned: I saw seven golden candlesticks. 
Revelation1:13 And in the midst of the candlesticks, one like unto the son of man clothed with a linen garment down to the ground, and gird about the paps(brest) with a golden girdle." 
Revelation1:14 His head, and his hairs were white, as white wool, and as snow: and his eyes were as a flame of fire:" 
Revelation1:15 and his feet like unto brass, as though they brent in a furnace: and his voice as the sound of many waters." 
Revelation1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars. And out of his mouth(mougth) went a (sharp) two edged sword. And his face shone even as the sun(son) in his strength. 
Revelation1:17 And when I saw him, I fell at his feet, even as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me: fear not. I am the first and the last," 
Revelation1:18 and am alive, and was dead. And behold I am alive for evermore, and have the keys of hell and of death." 
Revelation1:19 Write therefore the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be fulfilled hereafter:" 
Revelation1:20 and the mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels(messengers) of the seven congregations: And the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven congregations." 
Revelation2:1 Unto the angel(messenger) of the congregation of Ephesus write: These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, and walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks." 
Revelation2:2 I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not forbear them which are evil: and examinedst them which say they are apostles, and are not: and hast found them liars." 
Revelation2:3 And hast suffered,(and didst wash thy self) and hast patience: and for my name's sake hast laboured and hast not fainted." 
Revelation2:4 Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, for thou hast left thy first love." 
Revelation2:5 Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works. Or else I will come unto thee shortly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent." 
Revelation2:6 But this thou hast because thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which deeds I also hate." 
Revelation2:7 Let him that hath ears hear, what the spirit saith unto the congregations. To him that overcometh, will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst(myddes) of the paradise of God." 
Revelation2:8 And unto the angel of the congregation of Smyrna write: These things saith he that is first, and the last, which was dead and is alive." 
Revelation2:9 I know thy works and tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich: And I know the blasphemy of them which call themselves jews and are not: but are the congregation of sathan." 
Revelation2:10 Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast of you into prison, to tempt you, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be faithful unto the death, and I will give thee a crown of life." 
Revelation2:11 Let him that hath ears hear, what the spirit saith to the congregations: He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death." 
Revelation2:12 And to the angel(messenger) of the congregation in Pergamos write: This saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges. 
Revelation2:13 I know thy works and where thou dwellest, even where Sathan's seat is, and thou keepest my name and hast not denied my faith. And in my days Antipas was a faithful witness of mine, which was slain among you where sathan dwelleth." 
Revelation2:14 But I have a few things against thee: that thou hast there, they that maintain, the doctrine of Balaam which taught in Balak, to put occasion of sin before the children of Israel, that they should eat of meat dedicated unto idols, and to commit fornication." 
Revelation2:15 Even so hast thou them that maintain the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate." 
Revelation2:16 But repent(be converted) or else I will come to(unto) thee shortly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.(mought) 
Revelation2:17 Let him that hath ears hear what the spirit sayth unto the congregations: To him that overcometh will I give to eat Manna that is hid, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth, saving he that receiveth it." 
Revelation2:18 And unto the angel(messenger) of the congregation of Thiatira write: This sayth the son of God, which hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, whose feet are like brass:" 
Revelation2:19 I know thy works and thy love, service, and faith,(fayght) and thy patience, and thy deeds, which are more at the last than at the first." 
Revelation2:20 Notwithstanding(Not witstondinge) I have a few things against thee, that thou sufferest that woman Jesabell, which called herself a prophetess to teach and to deceive my servants, to make them commit fornication, and to eat meats offered up unto idols." 
Revelation2:21 And I gave her space to repent of her fornication and she repented not. 
Revelation2:22 Behold I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit fornication with her into great adversity, except they repent of(turn from) their deeds." 
Revelation2:23 And I will kill her children with death. And all the congregations shall know that I am he which searches the reins and hearts. And I will give unto everyone of you according to your works. 
Revelation2:24 Unto you I say, and unto other(others) of them of Thiatira as many as have not this learning, and which have not known the deepness of Satan (as they say) I will put upon you none other burden," 
Revelation2:25 but that which you have already. Hold fast till I come," 
Revelation2:26 and whosoever overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over nations," 
Revelation2:27 and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and as the vessels of a potter, shall he break them to shivers. Even as I received of my father." 
Revelation2:28 And I will(so will I) give him the morning star. 
Revelation2:29 Let him that hath ears hear what the spirit says to the congregations. 
Revelation3:1 And write unto the angel(messenger) of the congregation of Sardis: this sayth he that hath the spirit of God, and the seven stars. I know thy works, thou hast a name that you livest, and thou are dead." 
Revelation3:2 Be awake and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die. For I have not found thy works perfect before (my) God." 
Revelation3:3 Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. If you shalt not watch, I will come on you as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee." 
Revelation3:4 Thou hast a few names in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments, and they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy." 
Revelation3:5 He that overcometh shall be clothed in white array, and I will not put out his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before my father, and before his angels." 
Revelation3:6 Let him that hath ears hear what the spirit sayth unto the congregations. 
Revelation3:7 And write unto the angel(tidings bringer) of (the congregation of) Philadelphia: This sayth he that is holy and true, which hath the key of David: which openeth and no man shuteth, and shuteth and no man openeth." 
Revelation3:8 I know your works. Behold I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it, for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my sayings: and hast not denied my name." 
Revelation3:9 Behold. I make them of the congregation of Sathan, which call themselves jews and are not, but do lie. Behold. I will make them that they shall come and worship before thy feet: and shall know that I have loved(love) thee." 
Revelation3:10 Because thou hast kept the words of my patience, (therefore) I will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which will come upon all the world, to tempt them that dwell upon the earth." 
Revelation3:11 Behold I come shortly. Hold that which thou hast, that no man take away thy crown." 
Revelation3:12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out. And I will write upon him, the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God and I will write upon him my new name." 
Revelation3:13 Let him that hath ears, hear what the spirit saith unto the congregations." 
Revelation3:14 And unto the angel(messenger) of the congregation which is in Laodicia write: This saith (amen) the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creatures of God." 
Revelation3:15 I know thy works that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou were cold or hot. 
Revelation3:16 So then because thou art between both, and neither(nether) cold nor(ner) hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth:(mought)" 
Revelation3:17 because thou sayst thou art rich and increased with goods, and hast need of nothing, and knowest not how thou art wretched and miserable, poor, blind, and naked." 
Revelation3:18 I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayst be rich: and white raiment, that thou mayst be clothed, that thy filthy nakedness do not appear: and anoint thine eyes with eye salve, that thou mayst see." 
Revelation3:19 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Be fervent therefore and repent." 
Revelation3:20 Behold I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in unto him and will sup with him, and he with me." 
Revelation3:21 To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my seat, even as I overcame and have sitten with my father, in his seat." 
Revelation3:22 Let him that hath ears, hear what the spirit saith unto the congregations." 
Revelation4:1 After this I looked, and behold a door was open in heaven, and the first voice which I heard, was as it were of a trumpet talking with me, which said: come up hither, and I will shew the(thee) things which must be fulfilled hereafter." 
Revelation4:2 And immediately I was in the spirit: and behold, a seat was put in heaven, and one sat on the seat." 
Revelation4:3 And he that sat was to look upon like unto a jasper stone, and a sardyne stone: And there was a rainbow about the seat, to look upon,(in sight) like unto an emerald.(like to a Smaragd)" 
Revelation4:4 And about the seat were twenty four seats. And I saw on(upon) the seats twenty four seniors(elders) sitting clothed in white raiment, and had on their heads crowns of gold." 
Revelation4:5 And out of the seat proceeded lightnings, and thunderings, and voices: and there were seven lamps of fire, burning before the seat, which are the seven spirits of God." 
Revelation4:6 And before the seat there was a sea of glass, like unto crystal, and in the midst(mydes) of the seat, and round about the seat, were four beats full of eyes before and behind." 
Revelation4:7 And the first beast was like a lion, the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle." 
Revelation4:8 And the four beasts had each one of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within. And they had no rest day neither night saying: Holy, holy, holy, Lord(is the LORDE) God almighty, which was, and is, and is to come." 
Revelation4:9 And when those beasts gave glory and honour and thanks to him that sat on the seat, which liveth evermore,(for ever and ever:)" 
Revelation4:10 the twenty four seniors fell down before the throne, before him that sat on the throne,(the xxiiii. elders fell down before him that sat on the trone) and worshipped him that liveth (for) ever, and cast their crowns before the throne saying:" 
Revelation4:11 thou art worthy (O) Lord (our God) to receive glory, and honour, and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy will's sake they are, and were created." 
Revelation5:1 And I saw in the right hand of him, that sat in the throne, a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals." 
Revelation5:2 And I saw a strong angel which cried(angell preaching) with a loud voice: Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?" 
Revelation5:3 And no man in heaven nor(ner) in earth neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon." 
Revelation5:4 And I wept much, because, no man was found worthy to open, and to read the book, neither to look thereon." 
Revelation5:5 And one of the seniors(elders) said unto me: weep not: Behold a lion being of the tribe of Juda, the root(rote) of David, hath obtained to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof." 
Revelation5:6 And I beheld, and lo, in the midst(myddes) of the seat, and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the seniors,(elders) stood a lamb as though he had been killed, which had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the spirits of God, sent into all the world." 
Revelation5:7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the seat. 
Revelation5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and twenty four seniors(elders) fell down before the lamb, having harps and golden vials full of odoures, which are the prayers of saints(the saynctes)" 
Revelation5:9 and they sung a new song saying: thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast killed, and hast redeemed us by thy blood, out of all kindreds, and tongues, and people, and nations," 
Revelation5:10 and hast made us unto our God, kings and priests and we shall reign on the earth." 
Revelation5:11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels about the throne, and about the beasts and the seniors,(elders) and I heard thousand thousands," 
Revelation5:12 saying with a loud voice: Worthy is the lamb that was killed to receive power, and riches and wisdom, and strength, and honour and glory, and blessing." 
Revelation5:13 And all creatures, which are in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and in the sea, and all that are in them heard I saying: blessing, honour, glory, and power be unto him, that sitteth upon the seat, and unto the lamb for evermore." 
Revelation5:14 And the four beasts said: amen. And the twenty four seniors(elders) fell upon their faces, and worshipped him that liveth for evermore." 
Revelation6:1 And I saw when the lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard one of the four beasts say, as it were the noise of thunder, come and see." 
Revelation6:2 And I saw, and behold there was a white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow, and a crown was given unto him, and he went forth conquering and for to overcome." 
Revelation6:3 And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say: come and see." 
Revelation6:4 And there went out another horse that was red,(reed) and power was given to him that sat thereon, to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another. And there was given unto him a great sword." 
Revelation6:5 And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say: come and see. And I beheld, and lo, a black horse: and he that sat on him, had a pair of balances in his hand." 
Revelation6:6 And I heard a voice in the midst(myddes) of the four beasts say: a measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny: and oil and wine see thou hurt not." 
Revelation6:7 And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say: come and see." 
Revelation6:8 And I looked. And behold a green(pale) horse, and his name that sat on him was death, and hell followed after him, and power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, that cometh of vermin of the earth." 
Revelation6:9 And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar, the souls of them that were killed for the word of God, and for the testimony which they had," 
Revelation6:10 and they cried with a loud(lowde) voice saying: How long tarriest thou Lord holy and true, to judge and to avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?" 
Revelation6:11 And long white garments were given unto every one of them. And it was said unto them that they should rest for a little season until the number of their fellows, and brethren, and of them that should be killed as they were, were fulfilled." 
Revelation6:12 And I beheld when he opened the sixth seal, and lo there was a great earthquake, and the sun was as black as sack cloth made of hair. And the moon waxed even as blood:" 
Revelation6:13 and the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth from her her figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind." 
Revelation6:14 And heaven vanished away, as a scroll when it is rolled together. And all mountains and isles, were moved out of their places." 
Revelation6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in dens, and in rocks of the hills," 
Revelation6:16 and said to the hills, and rocks: fall on us, and hide us from the presence of him that sitteth on the seat, and from the wrath of the lamb," 
Revelation6:17 for the great day of his wrath is come; And who can endure it. 
Revelation7:1 And after that I saw four angels stand on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the winds should not blow on the earth, neither on the sea, neither on any tree." 
Revelation7:2 And I saw another angel ascend from the rising of the sun, which had the seal of the living God, and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels (to whom power was given to hurt the earth and the sea)" 
Revelation7:3 saying: Hurt not the earth neither the sea, neither the trees, till I(we) have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads." 
Revelation7:4 And I heard the number of them which were sealed, and there were sealed an hundred and forty four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel." 
Revelation7:5 Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Ruben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand. 
Revelation7:6 Of the tribe of Asser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Neptalym were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand. 
Revelation7:7 Of the tribe of Symeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Levy were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Isacar were sealed twelve thousand. 
Revelation7:8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin(Beniamyn) were sealed twelve thousand. 
Revelation7:9 After this I beheld, and lo a great multitude (which no man could number) of all nations, and people, and tongues, stood before the seat, and before the lamb, clothed with long white garments, and palms in their hands," 
Revelation7:10 and cried with a loud voice, saying: Health(salvation) be (ascribed) to him that sitteth upon the seat of our God, and unto the lamb." 
Revelation7:11 And all the angels stood in the compass of the seat, and of the seniors,(elders) and of the four beasts, and fell before the seat on their faces, and worshipped God," 
Revelation7:12 saying, amen: Blessing and glory, wisdom and thanks, and honour, and power and might, be unto our God, for evermore amen." 
Revelation7:13 And one of the seniors(elders) answered, saying unto me: what are these which are arrayed in long white garments, and whence came they?" 
Revelation7:14 And I said unto him: Lord thou wottest. And he said unto me: these are they which came out of great tribulation and made their garments large, and made them white in the blood of the lamb:" 
Revelation7:15 therefore are they in the presence of the seat of God and serve him day and night in his temple, and he that sitteth in the seat will dwell among them." 
Revelation7:16 They shall hunger no more neither thirst, neither shall the sun light on them, neither any heat." 
Revelation7:17 For the lamb which is in the midst of the seat, shall feed them, and shall lead them unto fountains of living water, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes." 
Revelation8:1 And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour." 
Revelation8:2 And I saw angels standing before God, and to them were given seven trumpets." 
Revelation8:3 And another angel came and stood before the altar having a golden censer, and much of odoures was given unto him, that he should offer of the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar, which was before the seat." 
Revelation8:4 And the smoke of the odoures which came of the prayers of all saints ascended up before God out of the angel's hand. 
Revelation8:5 And the angel took the censer and filled it with fire of the altar and cast it into the earth, and voices were made, and thunderings, and lightnings, and earthquake." 
Revelation8:6 And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to blow. 
Revelation8:7 The first angel blew, and there was made hail and fire, which were mingled with blood, and they were cast into the earth: and the third part (of the earth was set on fire, and the third part) of trees was burnt, and all green grass was brent." 
Revelation8:8 And the second angel blew: and as it were a great mountain: burning with fire was cast into the sea, and the third part of the sea turned to blood," 
Revelation8:9 and the third part of the creatures which had life died, and the third part of ships were destroyed." 
Revelation8:10 And the third angel blew, and there fell a great star from heaven burning as it were a lamp, and it fell into the third part of the rivers, and into fountains of waters," 
Revelation8:11 and the name of the star is called wormwood. And the third part(third part of the waters) was turned to wormwood. A many men died of the waters because they were made bitter. 
Revelation8:12 And the fourth angel blew, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of stars: so that the third part of them was darkened. And the day was smitten that the third part of it should not shine, and likewise the night." 
Revelation8:13 And I beheld and heard an angel flying thorow the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice: Woe; Woe, to the inhabiters of the earth because of the voices to come of the trompe of the three angels which were yet to blow." 
Revelation9:1 And the fifth angel blew, and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth. And to him was given the key of the bottomless pit." 
Revelation9:2 And he opened the bottomless pit, and there arose the smoke of a great furnace. And the sun and the air were darkened by the reason of the smoke of the pit." 
Revelation9:3 And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: And unto them was given power as the scorpions of the earth have power. 
Revelation9:4 And it(hit) was said unto them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth: neither any green thing:(And it hurt the grass of the erth: nether eny grene thinge) neither any tree: but only those men which have not the seal in their foreheads," 
Revelation9:5 and to them was commanded that they should not kill them, but that they should be vexed five months, and their pain was as the pain that cometh of a scorpion, when he hath stung a man." 
Revelation9:6 And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it, and shall desire to die, and death shall fly from them." 
Revelation9:7 And the similitude of the locusts was like unto horses prepared unto battle, and on their heads were as it were crowns, like unto gold: and their faces were as it had been the faces of men." 
Revelation9:8 And they had hairs as the hairs of women. And their teeth were as the teeth of lions. 
Revelation9:9 And they had habergeons, as it were habergeons of iron. And the sound of their wings, was as the sound of chariots when many horses run together to battle." 
Revelation9:10 And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails. And their power was to hurt men five months." 
Revelation9:11 And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the hebrew tongue, is Abadon: but in the greek tongue, Apollion, that is to say a destroyer." 
Revelation9:12 One woe is past, and behold two woes come after this." 
Revelation9:13 And the sixth angel blew, and I heard a voice from the four corners of the golden altar, which is before God," 
Revelation9:14 saying to the sixth angel which had the trompe: Loose the four angels, which are bound in the great river Euphrates." 
Revelation9:15 And the four angels were loosed which were prepared for an hour, for a day, for a month, and for a year, for to slay the third part of men." 
Revelation9:16 And the number of horsemen of war, were twenty times ten thousand. And I heard the number of them:" 
Revelation9:17 And thus I saw the horses in a vision and them that sat on them, having fiery habergeons of a Jacinth(yalowe) colour, and brimstone, and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions. And out of their mouths went forth fire and smoke and brimstone." 
Revelation9:18 And of these three, was the third part of men killed, that is to say, of fire, smoke, and brimstone, which proceeded out of the mouths of them:" 
Revelation9:19 For their power was in their mouths and in their tails: for their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they did hurt:" 
Revelation9:20 And the remnant of the men which were not killed by these plagues repented not of the deeds of their hands, that they should not worship devils, and images, of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone, and of wood, which neither can see, neither hear, neither go." 
Revelation9:21 Also they repented not of their murder, and of their sorcery(witchcraft) neither of their fornication(whoredom) neither of their theft." 
Revelation10:1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and the rainbow upon his head. And his face as it were the sun, and his feet as it were pillars of fire;" 
Revelation10:2 And he had in his hand a little book open: and he put his right foot upon the sea, and his left(lyfte) foot on the earth." 
Revelation10:3 And cried with a loud(lowde) voice, as when a lion roareth. And when he had cried, seven thunders spake their voices." 
Revelation10:4 And when the seven thunders had spoken their voices, I was about to write. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me mark those things(seal up thoo thynges) which the seven thunders spake, and write them not." 
Revelation10:5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea, and upon the earth, lifted up his hand to heaven," 
Revelation10:6 and swore by him that liveth for evermore, which created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which therein are: that there should be no longer time:" 
Revelation10:7 but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to blow: even the mystery of God shall be fulfilled,(finished) as he preached by his servants the prophets." 
Revelation10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said: go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel, which standeth upon the sea, and upon the earth." 
Revelation10:9 And I went unto the angel, and said to him: give me the little book, and he said unto me: take it, and eat it up, and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth as sweet as honey." 
Revelation10:10 And I took the little book out of his hand, and ate it up, and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey, and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter." 
Revelation10:11 And he said unto me: thou must prophesy again among the people, and nations,(and to the Heythen) and tongues, and to many kings." 
Revelation11:1 And then was given me a reed, like unto a rod, and it was said unto me: Rise and meet the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein," 
Revelation11:2 and the choir(quire) which is within the temple cast out, and meet it not: for it is given unto the gentiles, and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty two months." 
Revelation11:3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy one thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth." 
Revelation11:4 These are two olive trees, and two candlesticks, standing before the God of the earth." 
Revelation11:5 And if any man will hurt them, fire shall proceed out of their mouths, and consume their enemies. And if any man will hurt them, this wise must he be killed." 
Revelation11:6 These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophesying: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all manner plagues, as often as they will." 
Revelation11:7 And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that came out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them: and shall overcome, (them) and kill them." 
Revelation11:8 And their bodies shall lie in the streets of the great city, which spiritually is called Zodom and Eygpt, where our Lord was crucified." 
Revelation11:9 And they(some) of the people and kindreds, and tongues, and they of the nations, shall see their bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffer their bodies to be put in graves." 
Revelation11:10 And they that dwell upon the earth, shall rejoice over them and be glad, and shall send gifts one to another: for these two prophets vexed them that dwelt on the earth." 
Revelation11:11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God entered into them. And they stood up upon their feet: and great fear came upon them which saw them. 
Revelation11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying unto them. Come up hither. And they ascended up into heaven in a cloud, and their enemies saw them." 
Revelation11:13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain names of men seven thousand and the remnant were feared, and gave glory to God of heaven." 
Revelation11:14 The second woe is past, and behold the third woe will come anon." 
Revelation11:15 And the seventh angel blew, and there were made great voices in heaven, saying: the kingdoms of this world are our Lord's and his Christ's,(christes) and he shall reign for evermore." 
Revelation11:16 And the twenty four seniors,(elders) which sit before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God" 
Revelation11:17 saying: we give thee thanks Lord God omnipotent:(allmighty:) which art and wast, and art to come, for thou hast received thy great might, and hast reigned." 
Revelation11:18 And the nations(Heythen) were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that thou shouldest judge them: and(that they should be judged and that thou) shouldest give reward unto thy servants (the) prophets and saints, and to them that fear thy name small and great and shouldest destroy them, which destroy the earth." 
Revelation11:19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple, the ark of his testament: and there followed lightnings, and voices, and thunderings and earthquake, and much hail.(a great hail)" 
Revelation12:1 And there appeared a great wonder(token) in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars." 
Revelation12:2 And she was with child and cried travailing in birth, and pained ready to be delivered." 
Revelation12:3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven, and(for) behold a great red dragon, having seven heads, and ten horns, and seven crowns on his heads:(havyng .vii. heddes, and ten hornes and crounes upon his heddes)" 
Revelation12:4 and his tail drew the third part of the stars, and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman, which was ready to be delivered: for to devour her child as soon as it(hit) were born." 
Revelation12:5 And she brought forth a man child, which should rule all nations with a rod of iron. And her son was taken up unto God, and to his seat." 
Revelation12:6 And the woman fled into wilderness, where she had a place, prepared of God, that they should feed her there, one thousand, and twenty six days.(one thousand two hundred and sixty days) (First edition of 1526: fede her there, M, and xxvj. dayes. Later editions: fede her there a M. ii. C and lx. dayes.)" 
Revelation12:7 And there was great battle in heaven, Michael and his angels fought with the dragon and the dragon fought and his angels," 
Revelation12:8 and prevailed not: neither was their place found any more in heaven. 
Revelation12:9 And the great dragon, that old serpent called the devil and Sathanas; Was cast out. Which deceiveth all the world. And he was cast into the earth, and his angels were cast out also." 
Revelation12:10 And I heard a loud(lowd) voice saying: in heaven is now made health(salvation) and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: For he is cast down which accused them before God day and night:" 
Revelation12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the lamb, and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death." 
Revelation12:12 Therefore rejoice heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth, and of the sea: for the devil is come down unto you which hath great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time." 
Revelation12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child." 
Revelation12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, times, and half a time, from the presence of the dragon.(serpent.)" 
Revelation12:15 And the serpent(dragon) cast out of his mouth(mought) water after the woman as it had been a river because she should have been caught of the flood. 
Revelation12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth,(mought) and swallowed up the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.(mowth)" 
Revelation12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman: and went and made war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christe." 
Revelation13:1 And I stood on the sea sand.(see sonde) And I saw a beast rise out of the sea, having seven heads, and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his head, the name of blasphemy." 
Revelation13:2 And the beast which I saw, was like a cat of the mountain, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth(mowth) as the mouth(mowth) of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and his seat, and great authority:(auctorite)" 
Revelation13:3 and I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death, and his deadly wound was healed. And all the world wondered at the beast," 
Revelation13:4 and they worshipped the dragon, which gave power unto the beast, and they worshipped the beast saying: who is like unto the beast? who is able to war with him?" 
Revelation13:5 And there was a mouth(mowth) given unto him that spake great things, and blasphemies, and power was given unto him, to continue(do) forty two months." 
Revelation13:6 And he opened his mouth(mowth) unto blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven." 
Revelation13:7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to over come them. And power was given him over all kindred, tongue, and nation:" 
Revelation13:8 and all that dwell upon the earth worshipped him: whose names are not written in the book of life of the lamb, which was killed from the beginning of the world." 
Revelation13:9 If any man have an ear, let him hear." 
Revelation13:10 He that leadeth into captivity, shall go into captivity: he that killeth with a sword, must be killed with a sword. Here is the patience, and the faith(fayght) of the saints.(saynctes)" 
Revelation13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as did the dragon." 
Revelation13:12 And he did all that the first beast could do in his presence, and he caused the earth, and them which dwell therein, to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed." 
Revelation13:13 And he did great wonders, so that he made fire come down from heaven in the sight of men." 
Revelation13:14 And deceived them that dwelt on the earth, by the means of those signs which he had power to do in the sight of the beast, saying to them that dwelt on the earth: that they should make an image unto the beast, which had the wound of a sword, and did live." 
Revelation13:15 And he had power to give a spirit unto the image of the beast, and that the image of the beast should speak, and should cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast, should be killed." 
Revelation13:16 And he made all men,(both) small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hands,(hondes) or in their foreheads." 
Revelation13:17 And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, other the number of his name." 
Revelation13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath wit count the number of the beast. For it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred, threescore and six." 
Revelation14:1 And I looked, and lo a lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with him a hundred and forty four thousand having his (name and his) father's name written in their foreheads." 
Revelation14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the sound of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder. And I heard the voice of harpers harping with(that play upon) their harps." 
Revelation14:3 And they sang as it were a new song, before the seat, and before the four beasts, and the seniors,(elders) and no man could learn that song, but the hundred and forty four thousand which were redeemed from the earth." 
Revelation14:4 These are they, which were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These follow the lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from men being the first fruits unto God and to the lamb," 
Revelation14:5 and in their mouths was found no guile. For they are without spot before the throne of God. 
Revelation14:6 And I saw an angel fly in the midst(myddes) of heaven having an everlasting gospel,(gospell) to preach unto them that sit and dwell on the earth, and to all nations, kindreds, and tongues, and people," 
Revelation14:7 saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give honour to him, for the hour of his judgement is come: and worship him, that made heaven and earth, and the sea, and fountains of water." 
Revelation14:8 And there followed another angel, saying: Babylon is fallen is fallen that great city, for she made all nations drink of the wine of her fornication.(whoredom)" 
Revelation14:9 And the third angel followed them saying with a loud voice: If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or on his hand," 
Revelation14:10 the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured in the cup of his wrath. And he shall be punished in fire and brimstone, before the holy angels, and before the lamb." 
Revelation14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up evermore. And they have no rest day nor(ner) night, which worship the beast, and his image, and whosoever receiveth the print of his name." 
Revelation14:12 Here is the patience of saints. Here are they that keep the commandments and the faith of Jesu.(fayght of Iesu) 
Revelation14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me: write: Blessed are the dead, which hereafter die in the Lord, even so saith the spirit: that they may rest from their labors, but(for) their works shall follow them." 
Revelation14:14 And I looked and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sitting like unto the son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand(honde) a sharp sickle." 
Revelation14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud. Thrust in thy sickle and reap: for the time is come to reap, for the corn of the earth is ripe." 
Revelation14:16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped." 
Revelation14:17 And another angel came out of the temple, which is in heaven, having also a sharp sickle." 
Revelation14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire, and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, and said: thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the earth: for her grapes are ripe." 
Revelation14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle on the earth: and cut down the grapes of the vineyard of the earth: and cast them into the great winefat of the wrath of God," 
Revelation14:20 and the winefat was trodden with out the city, and blood came out of the fat, even unto the horse bridles by the space of a thousand and four score furlongs.(a thousand and six hundred furlongs.) (First edition 1526: a thowsande and iiij score furlonges. Later editions: a thowsande and vi. C. furlongs.)" 
Revelation15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them is fulfilled the wrath of God." 
Revelation15:2 And I saw as it were a glassy sea, mingled with fire, and them that had gotten victory of the beast, and of his image, and of his mark, and of the number of his name, stand on the glassy sea, having the harps of God" 
Revelation15:3 and they sang the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the lamb, saying: Great and marvelous are thy works Lord God almighty, just and true are thy ways, King of the saints.(thou king of saynctes)" 
Revelation15:4 Who shall not fear(fear thee) o Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy, and all gentiles shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgements are made manifest." 
Revelation15:5 And after that I looked, and behold the temple of the tabernacle of testimony was open in heaven," 
Revelation15:6 and the seven angels came out of the temple, which had the seven plagues, clothed in pure and bright linen, and having their breasts girded with golden girdles." 
Revelation15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials, full of the wrath of God which liveth for evermore." 
Revelation15:8 And the temple was full of the smoke of the glory of God and of his power, and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled." 
Revelation16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels: go your ways, pour out your vials of wrath upon the earth." 
Revelation16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a noisome and a sore botch upon the men, which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image." 
Revelation16:3 And the second angel shed out his vial upon the sea, and it turned as it were into the blood of a dead man, and every living thing died in the sea." 
Revelation16:4 And the third angel shed out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters, and they turned to blood." 
Revelation16:5 And I heard an angel say: Lord which art and wast, thou art righteous and holy, because thou hast given such judgements," 
Revelation16:6 for they shed out the blood of saints, and prophets, and therefore hast thou given them blood to drink: for they are worthy." 
Revelation16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say: even so Lord God almighty, true and righteous are thy judgements." 
Revelation16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial on the sun, and power was given unto him to vex men with heat of fire." 
Revelation16:9 And the men raged in great heat, and spake evil of the name of God which had(hath) power over those plagues, and they repented not, to give him glory." 
Revelation16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast, and his kingdom waxed dark, and they gnawed(gnewe) their tongues for sorrow," 
Revelation16:11 and blasphemed the God of heaven for sorrow, and pain of their sores, and repented not of their deeds." 
Revelation16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates, and the water dried up, that the ways of the kings of the east should be prepared." 
Revelation16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet." 
Revelation16:14 For they are the spirits of devils working miracles, to go out unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God almighty." 
Revelation16:15 Behold I come as a thief. Happy is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments; Lest he be found naked, and men see his filthiness." 
Revelation16:16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the hebrew tongue Armagedon. 
Revelation16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air. And there came a voice out of heaven from the seat, saying: It is done." 
Revelation16:18 And there followed voices, thunderings, and lightnings, and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake and so great." 
Revelation16:19 And the great city was divided into the three parts; And the cities of nations fell. And great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of wine of the fierceness of (his) wrath." 
Revelation16:20 Every isle fled away, and the mountains were not found." 
Revelation16:21 And there fell a great hail, as it had been talents, out of heaven upon the men, and the men blasphemed God, because of the plague of the hail, for it was great and the plague of it sore." 
Revelation17:1 And there came one of the seven angels, which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me: (come) I will shew thee the judgement of the great whore, that sitteth upon many waters," 
Revelation17:2 with whom have committed fornication the kings of the earth, so that(with whom the kings of the earth have committed whoredom, and) the inhabiters of the earth, are drunken with the wine of her fornication." 
Revelation17:3 And he carried me away into the wilderness in the spirit. And I saw a woman sit upon a rose colored beast full of names of blasphemy, which had ten horns." 
Revelation17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and rose colour, and decked with gold, precious stone, and pearls, and had a cup of gold in her hand, full of abomination,(abominations) and filthiness of her fornication.(whoredom)" 
Revelation17:5 And in her forehead was a name written, a mystery, great Babylon the mother of whoredom and abominations of the earth." 
Revelation17:6 And I saw the wife drunken with the blood of saints, and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesu. And when I saw her: I wondered with great marvel." 
Revelation17:7 And the angel said unto me: wherefore marvellest thou? I will shew thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that beareth her, which hath seven heads, and ten horns." 
Revelation17:8 The beast that thou seest, was, and is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and shall go into perdition, and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder (whose names are not written in the book of life from he beginning of the world) when they behold the beast that was, and is not." 
Revelation17:9 And here is a mind that hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth:" 
Revelation17:10 they are also seven kings. Five are fallen, and one is, and another is not yet come. When he cometh he must continue a space." 
Revelation17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, is even the eighth, and is one of the seven, and shall go into destruction." 
Revelation17:12 And the ten horns which thou seest,(sawest) are ten kings, which have received no(not yet received) kingdom, but shall receive power as kings at one hour with the beast." 
Revelation17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast." 
Revelation17:14 These shall fight with the lamb, and the lamb shall overcome them: For he is Lord(LORDE) of lords, and King of Kings: and they that are on his side, are called, and chosen, and faithful." 
Revelation17:15 And he said unto me: the waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are people, and folk, and nations, and tongues." 
Revelation17:16 And the ten horns, which thou sawest upon the beast, are they that shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate, and naked, and shall eat her(their) flesh, and burn her with fire." 
Revelation17:17 For God hath put in their hearts, to fulfil his will, and to do with one consent, for to give her kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God be fulfilled." 
Revelation17:18 And the woman (which) thou sawest, is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth." 
Revelation18:1 And after that I saw another angel come from heaven, having great power, and the earth was lightened with his brightness." 
Revelation18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice saying: Great Babylon is fallen is fallen,(She is fallen, she is fallen, even great Babylon) and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of all foul spirits, and a cage of all unclean and hateful birds," 
Revelation18:3 for all nations have drunken of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.(whoredom) And the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and her merchants are waxed rich of the abundance of her pleasures." 
Revelation18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven say: come away from her my people, that ye be not partakers in her sins, that ye receive not of her plagues." 
Revelation18:5 For her sins are gone up to heaven, and God hath remembered her wickedness." 
Revelation18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and give her double according to her works. And pour in double to her in the same cup which she filled unto you." 
Revelation18:7 And as much as she glorified herself and lived wantonly, so much pour ye in for her of punishment, and sorrow, for she said in her heart: I sit being a queen and am no widow and shall see no sorrow." 
Revelation18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come at one day, death, and sorrow, and hunger, and she shall be brent with fire: for strong is the Lord God which judgeth her.(shall judge her)" 
Revelation18:9 And the kings of the earth shall beweep her and wail over her, which have committed fornication with her, and have lived wantonly with her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning," 
Revelation18:10 and shall stand afar off, for fear of her punishment, saying: Alas, Alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city: For at one hour is her judgment come." 
Revelation18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and wail in themselves, for no man will buy their ware any more," 
Revelation18:12 the ware of gold and silver, and precious stones, neither of pearl, and raynes,(silk) and purple, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and of iron," 
Revelation18:13 and cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, beasts,(cattle) and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and bodies and souls of men." 
Revelation18:14 And the apples that thy soul lusted after, are departed from thee. And all things which were dainty, and had in price are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more." 
Revelation18:15 The merchants of these things which were waxed rich (by her) shall stand afar off from her, for fear of the punishment of her, weeping and wailing," 
Revelation18:16 and saying: Alas alas, that great city, that was clothed in raynes,(silk) and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stone, and pearls:" 
Revelation18:17 for at one hour so great riches is come to nought. And every ship governor, and all they that occupied ships, and shipmen which work in the sea, stood afar off," 
Revelation18:18 and cried, when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying: what city is like unto this great city?" 
Revelation18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried weeping, and wailing, and said: Alas Alas that great city wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea, by the reason of her ware,(costliness) for at one hour is she made desolate." 
Revelation18:20 Rejoice over her thou heaven, and ye holy apostles, and prophets: for God hath given your judgement on her." 
Revelation18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying: with such violence shall that great city Babylon be cast, and shall be found no more." 
Revelation18:22 And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters, shall be heard no more in thee: and no crafts man, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee, and the sound of a mill shall be heard no more in thee," 
Revelation18:23 and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride, shall be heard no more in thee: for thy merchants were the great men(princes) of the earth. And with thine enchantment were deceived all nations:" 
Revelation18:24 and in her was found the blood of the prophets, and of the saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth." 
Revelation19:1 And after that, I heard the voice of much people in heaven saying: Alleluia. Health(Salvation) and glory and honour, and power be unto our Lord God,(be ascribed to the Lord our God)" 
Revelation19:2 for true and righteous are his judgements, for(because) he hath judged the great whore which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants of her hand." 
Revelation19:3 And again they said: Alleluya. And smoke rose up for evermore. 
Revelation19:4 And the twenty four seniors,(elders) and the four beasts fell down, and worshipped God that sat on the seat saying: Amen Alleluya." 
Revelation19:5 And a voice came out of the seat, saying: praise our Lord God all ye that are his servants, and ye that fear him both small and great." 
Revelation19:6 And I heard the voice of much people, even as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of strong thunderings, saying: Alleluya, for God omnipotent hath reigned.(reigneth.)" 
Revelation19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice and give honour to him: for the marriage of the lamb is come, and his wife made herself ready." 
Revelation19:8 And to her was granted, that she should be arrayed with pure and goodly raynes.(silk) For the raynes(silk) is the righteousness of saints." 
Revelation19:9 And he said unto me: happy(Blessed) are they which are called unto the Lamb's supper. And he said unto me: these are the true sayings of God. 
Revelation19:10 And I fell at his feet, to worship him. And he said unto me: see thou do it not. For I am thy fellow servant, and one of thy brethren, and of them that have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." 
Revelation19:11 And I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse: and he that sat upon him was(was called) faithful and true, and in righteousness did judge and make battle." 
Revelation19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire: and on his head were many crowns: and he had a name written, that no man knew but himself." 
Revelation19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped(dipt) in blood, and his name is called the word of God." 
Revelation19:14 And the warriors which were in heaven, followed him upon white horses, clothed with white and pure raynes:(silk)" 
Revelation19:15 and out of his mouth went out a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the heathen. And he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he trod the winefat of fierceness and wrath of almighty God." 
Revelation19:16 And hath on his vesture and on his thigh: (a name written) King of kings, and Lord of lords." 
Revelation19:17 And I saw an angel stand(stond) in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly by the midst(middes) of heaven: come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God," 
Revelation19:18 that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and of high captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all free men and bond men, and of small and great." 
Revelation19:19 And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth, and their warriors gathered together to make battle against him that sat on the horse and against his soldiers." 
Revelation19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him that false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that received the beast's mark, and them that worshipped his image. These both were cast into a pond of fire burning with brimstone:" 
Revelation19:21 and the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth, and all the fowls were fulfilled(full filled) with their flesh." 
Revelation20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great chain in his hand." 
Revelation20:2 And he took the dragon that old serpent, which is the devil and satanas, and he bound him a thousand years:" 
Revelation20:3 and cast him into the bottomless pit, and he bound him, and set a seal on him, that he should deceive the people no more, till the thousand years were fulfilled. And after that he must be loosed(lowsed) for a little season." 
Revelation20:4 And I saw seats, and they sat upon them, and judgement was given unto them: and I saw the souls of them were beheaded for the witness of Jesu, and for the word of God: which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had taken his mark upon their foreheads, or on their hands: and they lived, and reigned with Christ a thousand year:" 
Revelation20:5 but the other of the dead men lived not again, until the thousand year were finished. This is that first resurrection." 
Revelation20:6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. For on such shall the second death have no power, for they shall be the priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand year." 
Revelation20:7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed(lowsed) out of his prison," 
Revelation20:8 and shall go out to deceive the people which are in the four quarters of the earth Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle whose number is as the sand of the sea:" 
Revelation20:9 and they went up on the plain of the earth, and compassed the tents of the saints about, and the beloved city. And fire came down from God, out of heaven, and devoured them:" 
Revelation20:10 and the devil that deceived them, was cast into a lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet were and shall be tormented day and night for ever more." 
Revelation20:11 And I saw a great white seat and him that sat on it, from whose face fled away both the earth and heaven, and their place was no more found." 
Revelation20:12 And I saw the dead, both great and small stand(stond) before God: And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged of those things which were written in the books according to their deeds:" 
Revelation20:13 and the sea gave up her dead, which were in her, and death and hell delivered up the dead, which were in them: and they were judged every man according to his deeds." 
Revelation20:14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is that second death. 
Revelation20:15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life, was cast into the lake of fire." 
Revelation21:1 And I saw a new heaven, and a new earth. For the first heaven, and the first earth, were vanished away, and there was no more sea." 
Revelation21:2 And I John saw that holy city new Jerusalem come down from God out of heaven prepared as a bride garnished for her husband. 
Revelation21:2 And I John saw that holy city new Jerusalem come down from God out of heaven prepared as a bride garnished for her husband. 
Revelation21:3 And I heard a great voice from the throne,(seat)(agrett voyce out of heaven) saying: behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them. And they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God." 
Revelation21:4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, neither crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the old things are gone." 
Revelation21:5 And he that sat upon the seat, said: Behold I make all things new. And he said unto me: write, for these words are faithful and true." 
Revelation21:6 And he said unto me: it is done I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning, and the end. I will give to him that is a thirst of the well of the water of life free." 
Revelation21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son." 
Revelation21:8 But the fearful and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death." 
Revelation21:9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues: and talked with me saying: come hither I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife." 
Revelation21:10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and an high mountain, and he shewed me the great city, holy Jerusalem descending out of heaven from God," 
Revelation21:11 having the brightness of God. And her shining was like unto a stone most precious, even a Jasper clear as Crystal:" 
Revelation21:12 and had walls great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels: and names written, which are the twelve tribes of Israel:" 
Revelation21:13 on the east part three gates, and on the north side three gates, and towards the south three gates, and from the west three gates:" 
Revelation21:14 and the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the Lamb's twelve apostles." 
Revelation21:15 And he that talked with me, had a golden reed to measure the city withal and the gates thereof and the wall thereof." 
Revelation21:16 And the city was built four square, and the length was as large as the breadth of it, and he measured the city with the reed twelve thousand furlongs: and the length, and the breadth, and the height of it, were equal." 
Revelation21:17 And he measured the wall thereof an hundred (and) forty four cubits: the measure that the angel had was after the measure that man useth. 
Revelation21:18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper. And the city was pure gold like unto clear glass 
Revelation21:19 and the foundations of the wall of the city was garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third a chalcedony, the fourth an emerald:" 
Revelation21:20 the fifth sardonyx: the sixth sardeos: the seventh chrysolite: the eighth berall: the ninth a topas: the tenth a chrysoprasus: the eleventh a hyacinth:(jacinth) the twelfth an amethyst. 
Revelation21:21 The twelve gates were twelve pearls, every gate was of one pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, as thorow shining glass." 
Revelation21:22 And there was no temple therein. For the Lord God almighty and the lamb are the temple of it. 
Revelation21:23 And the city hath no need of the sun(son) neither of the moon to lighten it. For the brightness of God did light it: and the lamb was the light of it. 
Revelation21:24 And the people which are saved shall walk in the light of it: and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory (and honour) unto it. 
Revelation21:25 And the gates of it are not shut by day. For there shall be no night there. 
Revelation21:26 And in to it shall they bring the glory and honour of the nations 
Revelation21:27 And there shall enter into it none unclean thing: neither whatsoever worketh abomination: or maketh lies: but they only which are written in the Lamb's book of life. 
Revelation22:1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life pure(clear) as crystal: proceeding out of the seat of God and of the lamb. 
Revelation22:2 In the midst(myddes) of the street of it, and on either side of the river was there wood of life: which bare twelve manner of fruits: and gave fruit every month: and the leaves of the wood served to heal the people withal." 
Revelation22:3 And there shall be no more curse, but the fear(seat) of God and the lamb shall be in it: and his servants shall serve him." 
Revelation22:4 And they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads." 
Revelation22:5 And there shall be no more night there and they need no candle, neither light of the sun: for the Lord God giveth them light, and they shall reign for evermore." 
Revelation22:6 And he said unto me: these sayings are faithful, and true. And the Lord God of saints and prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants, the things which must shortly be fulfilled." 
Revelation22:7 Behold I come shortly. Happy is he that keepeth the saying of the prophecy of this book. 
Revelation22:8 I am John, which saw these things and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down, to worship before the feet of the angel which shewed me these things." 
Revelation22:8 I am John, which saw these things and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down, to worship before the feet of the angel which shewed me these things." 
Revelation22:9 And he said unto me: see thou do it not, for I am thy fellow servant and the fellow servant of thy brethren the prophets and of them which keep the sayings of this book. But worship God." 
Revelation22:10 And he said unto me: seal not the sayings of prophesy of this book. For the time is at hand.(tyme is at honde) 
Revelation22:11 He that doth evil, let him do evil still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be more righteous: and he that is holy, let him be more holy." 
Revelation22:12 And behold I come shortly, and my reward with me, to give every man according as his deeds shall be." 
Revelation22:13 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last." 
Revelation22:14 Blessed are they that do his commandments, that their power may be in the tree of life, and may enter in thorow the gates into the city." 
Revelation22:15 For with out shall be dogs and enchanters, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth or maketh leasings." 
Revelation22:16 I Jesus sent mine angel, to testify unto you these things in the congregations. I am the root(rote) and the generation of David, and the bright morning star." 
Revelation22:17 And the spirit and the bride said come. And let him that heareth, say also come. And let him that is a thirst come. And let whosoever will, take of the water of life free." 
Revelation22:18 I testify unto every man that heareth the words of prophecy of this book: if any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book." 
Revelation22:19 And if any man shall minish of the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from those things which are written in this book." 
Revelation22:20 He which testifieth these things saith: be it,(Yea) I come quickly, Amen. Even so: come Lord Jesu." 
