Genesis4:23 Lamech boasted to his wives: “Listen to me, Dawn and Dusk! Mark my words, O wives of Lamech! I have killed a man for wounding me, and a young man for bruising me." 
Genesis10:21 Shem, the older brother of Japheth, also had sons and was the ancestor of all the sons of Eber, who were also known as “Hebrews.”" 
Genesis35:20 Jacob set up a pillar to mark her burial site, and it is known as The Marker of Rachel’s Tomb to this day." 
Genesis40:15 For I was kidnapped from the land of the Hebrews, and I have done nothing here to deserve being thrown into this dungeon.”" 
Genesis43:32 First, they served Joseph who was seated apart from his brothers, then the brothers by themselves, and the Egyptians by themselves. (It would have been utterly offensive for the Egyptians to eat at the same table with the Hebrews.)" 
Joshua11:16 So Joshua conquered the entire region: the Judean hills, the southern desert, all the land of Goshen, the foothills, the lowlands of the Jordan Valley, the northern hill country of Israel including its lowlands—" 
Joshua12:8 the hill country, the western foothills, and the Jordan Valley, the mountain slopes, the wilderness of Judea, and the southern desert region— the land of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites." 
Joshua15:48 The cities of the sixth district in the Judean hills included Shamir, Jattir, Socoh," 
Judges1:16 The descendants of Moses’ father-in-law, the Kenite, joined the people of Judah, and went with them from Jericho, the City of Date Palms, to the Judean wilderness. The Kenites had settled there among the Amalekites at Arad." 
Psalms66:6 He made a highway going right through the Red Sea as the Hebrews passed through on dry ground, exploding with joyous excitement over the miracles of God." 
Psalms105:37 At last, God freed all the Hebrews from their slavery and sent them away laden with the silver and gold of Egypt. And not even one was feeble on their way out!" 
Psalms105:38 Egypt was relieved at their exodus, ready to see them go, for the terror of the Lord of the Hebrews had fallen upon them!" 
Proverbs4:7 Wisdom is the most valuable commodity—so buy it! Revelation-knowledge is what you need—so invest in it! 
Proverbs20:10 Mark it down: God hates it when you demonstrate a double standard— one for “them” and one for “you.” 
Proverbs24:13 Revelation-knowledge is a delicacy, sweet like flowing honey that melts in your mouth. Eat as much of it as you can, my friend!" 
Isaiah11:2 the Spirit of Yahweh will rest upon him, the Spirit of Extraordinary Wisdom, the Spirit of Perfect Understanding, the Spirit of Wise Strategy, the Spirit of Mighty Power, the Spirit of Revelation, and the Spirit of the Fear of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah34:14 that every seventh year, each one of you is to free any fellow Hebrews who have sold themselves to you. They may be your slave for six years, then you must give them their freedom. Your ancestors, however, did not listen to me and would not obey." 
Jeremiah40:7 There were still some Judean forces in the open country. Their captains heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah son of Ahikam as governor of Judah and made him responsible for everyone, including the poor, who had not been deported to Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:30 In the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign, Nebuzaradan, the field general, deported 745 Judeans. In all, 4,600 persons were deported." 
Ezekiel21:20 Mark out the routes for the sword to come to Rabbah-of-the-Ammonites, and to Judah, and its fortress of Jerusalem." 
Matthew1:1 This is the scroll of the genealogy of Jesus, the Anointed One, the son of David and descendant of Abraham." 
Matthew1:2 Abraham had a son named Isaac, who had a son named Jacob, who had a son named Judah (he and his brothers became the tribes of Israel)." 
Matthew1:3 Judah and Tamar had twin sons, Perez and Zerah. Perez had a son named Hezron, who had a son named Ram," 
Matthew1:4 who had a son named Amminadab, who had a son named Nashon," 
Matthew1:5 who had a son named Salmon, who, along with Rahab, had a son named Boaz. Boaz and Ruth had a son named Obed, who was the father of Jesse," 
Matthew1:6 and Jesse had a son named David, who became the king." 
Matthew1:7 Then David and Bathsheba had a son named Solomon, who had a son named Rehoboam, who had a son named Abijah, who had a son named Asa," 
Matthew1:8 who had a son named Jehoshaphat, who had a son named Joram, who had a son named Uzziah," 
Matthew1:9 who had a son named Jotham, who had a son named Ahaz, who had a son named Hezekiah," 
Matthew1:10 who had a son named Manasseh, who had a son named Amos, who had a son named Josiah," 
Matthew1:11 who was the father of Jeconiah. It was during the days of Jeconiah and his brothers that Israel was taken captive and deported to Babylon. 
Matthew1:12 About the time of their captivity in Babylon, Jeconiah had a son named Shealtiel, who had a son named Zerubbabel," 
Matthew1:13 who had a son named Abiud, who had a son named Eliakim," 
Matthew1:14 who had a son named Azor, who had a son named Zadok, who had a son named Achim, who had a son named Eliud," 
Matthew1:15 who had a son named Eleazar, who had a son named Matthan, who had a son named Jacob," 
Matthew1:16 who was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary the mother of Jesus, who is called “the Anointed One.”" 
Matthew1:17 So from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the Babylonian captivity, fourteen generations, and from the Babylonian captivity to Christ, fourteen generations." 
Matthew1:18 This is how the birth of Jesus Christ took place. His mother, Mary, had promised Joseph to be his wife, but while she was still a virgin she became pregnant through the power of the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew1:19 Her fiancé, Joseph, was a righteous man full of integrity and he didn’t want to disgrace her, but when he learned of her pregnancy he secretly planned to break the engagement." 
Matthew1:20 While he was still debating with himself about what to do, he fell asleep and had a supernatural dream. An angel from the Lord appeared to him and said, “Joseph, descendant of David, don’t hesitate to take Mary into your home as your wife, because the power of the Holy Spirit has conceived a child in her womb." 
Matthew1:21 She will give birth to a son and you are to name him ‘Savior,’ for he is destined to give his life to save his people from their sins.”" 
Matthew1:22 This happened to fulfill what the Lord had spoken through his prophet: 
Matthew1:23 Listen! A virgin will be pregnant, she will give birth to a Son, and he will be known as “Emmanuel,” which means in Hebrew, “God became one of us.”" 
Matthew1:24 When Joseph woke from his dream, he did all that the angel of the Lord instructed him to do. He took Mary to be his wife," 
Matthew1:25 but they refrained from having sex until she gave birth to her firstborn son, whom they named “Jesus.”" 
Matthew2:1 Jesus was born in Bethlehem near Jerusalem during the reign of King Herod. After Jesus’ birth a group of spiritual priests from the East came to Jerusalem 
Matthew2:2 and inquired of the people, “Where is the child who is born king of the Jewish people? We observed his star rising in the sky and we’ve come to bow before him in worship.”" 
Matthew2:3 King Herod was shaken to the core when he heard this, and not only he, but all of Jerusalem was disturbed when they heard this news." 
Matthew2:4 So he called a meeting of the Jewish ruling priests and religious scholars, demanding that they tell him where the promised Messiah was prophesied to be born." 
Matthew2:5 “He will be born in Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,” they told him. “Because the prophecy states:" 
Matthew2:6 And you, little Bethlehem, are not insignificant among the clans of Judah, for out of you will emerge the Shepherd-King of my people Israel!”" 
Matthew2:7 Then Herod secretly summoned the spiritual priests from the East to ascertain the exact time the star first appeared. 
Matthew2:8 And he told them, “Now go to Bethlehem and carefully look there for the child, and when you’ve found him, report to me so that I can go and bow down and worship him too.”" 
Matthew2:9 And on their way to Bethlehem, the same star they had seen in the East suddenly reappeared! Amazed, they watched as it went ahead of them and stopped directly over the place where the child was." 
Matthew2:10 And when they saw the star, they were so ecstatic that they shouted and celebrated with unrestrained joy." 
Matthew2:11 When they came into the house and saw the young child with Mary, his mother, they fell to the ground at his feet and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasure chests full of gifts and presented him with gold, frankincense, and myrrh." 
Matthew2:12 Afterward they returned to their own country by another route because God had warned them in a dream not to go back to Herod. 
Matthew2:13 After they had gone, Joseph had another dream. An angel of the Lord appeared to him and said, “Get up now and flee to Egypt. Take Mary and the little child and stay there until I tell you to leave, for Herod intends to search for the child to kill him.”" 
Matthew2:14 So that very night he got up and took Jesus and his mother and made their escape to Egypt 
Matthew2:15 and remained there until Herod died. All of this fulfilled what the Lord had spoken through his prophet: I summon my Son out of Egypt. 
Matthew2:16 When Herod realized that he had been tricked by the wise men, he was infuriated. So he sent soldiers with orders to slaughter every baby boy two years old and younger in Bethlehem and throughout the surrounding countryside, based on the time frame he was given from interrogating the wise men." 
Matthew2:17 This fulfilled the words of the prophet Jeremiah: 
Matthew2:18 I hear the screams of anguish, weeping, and wailing in Ramah. Rachel is weeping uncontrollably for her children. And she refuses to be comforted, because they are dead and gone." 
Matthew2:19 After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared again to Joseph in a dream while he was still in Egypt," 
Matthew2:20 saying, “Go back to the land of Israel and take the child and his mother with you, for those who sought to kill the child are dead.”" 
Matthew2:21 So he awoke and took Jesus and Mary and returned to the land of Israel. 
Matthew2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus, Herod’s son, had succeeded him as ruler over all of the territory of Judah, he was afraid to go back. Then he had another dream from God, warning him to avoid that region and instructing him instead to go to the province of Galilee." 
Matthew2:23 So he settled his family in the village of Nazareth, fulfilling the prophecy that he would be known as the “Branch.”" 
Matthew3:1 It was at this time that John the Baptizer began to preach in the desert of Judah. His message was this: 
Matthew3:1 It was at this time that John the Baptizer began to preach in the desert of Judah. His message was this: 
Matthew3:2 “Heaven’s kingdom is about to appear—so you’d better keep turning away from evil and turn back to God!” 
Matthew3:3 Isaiah was referring to John when he prophesied: A thunderous voice! One will be crying out in the wilderness, “Prepare yourself for the Lord’s coming and level a straight path inside your hearts for him.”" 
Matthew3:3 Isaiah was referring to John when he prophesied: A thunderous voice! One will be crying out in the wilderness, “Prepare yourself for the Lord’s coming and level a straight path inside your hearts for him.”" 
Matthew3:4 Now, John wore clothing made from camel’s hair, tied at his waist with a leather strap, and his food consisted of dried locusts and wild honey." 
Matthew3:4 Now, John wore clothing made from camel’s hair, tied at his waist with a leather strap, and his food consisted of dried locusts and wild honey." 
Matthew3:5 A steady stream of people from Jerusalem, all the surrounding countryside, and the region near the Jordan came out to the wilderness to be baptized by him." 
Matthew3:6 And while they were publicly confessing their sins, he would immerse them in the Jordan River." 
Matthew3:7 But when he saw many coming from among the wealthy elite of Jewish society and many of the religious leaders known as Pharisees coming to witness the baptism, he began to denounce them, saying, “You offspring of vipers! Who warned you to slither away like snakes from the fire of God’s judgment?" 
Matthew3:8 You must prove your repentance by a changed life. 
Matthew3:9 And don’t presume you can get away with merely saying to yourselves, ‘But we’re Abraham’s descendants!’ For I tell you, God can awaken these stones to become sons of Abraham!" 
Matthew3:10 The axe is now ready to cut down the trees at their very roots. Every fruitless, rotten tree will be chopped down and thrown into the fire." 
Matthew3:11 Those who repent I baptize with water, but there is coming a man after me who is more powerful than I. In fact, I’m not even worthy enough to pick up his sandals. He will submerge you into union with the Spirit of Holiness and with a raging fire!" 
Matthew3:12 He comes with a winnowing fork in his hands and comes to his threshing floor to sift what is worthless from what is pure. And he is ready to sweep out his threshing floor and gather his wheat into his granary, but the straw he will burn up with a fire that can’t be extinguished!”" 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus left Galilee to come to the Jordan to be baptized by John. 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus left Galilee to come to the Jordan to be baptized by John. 
Matthew3:14 But when he waded into the water, John resisted him, saying, “Why are you doing this? I’m the one who needs to be baptized by you, and yet you come to be baptized by me?”" 
Matthew3:14 But when he waded into the water, John resisted him, saying, “Why are you doing this? I’m the one who needs to be baptized by you, and yet you come to be baptized by me?”" 
Matthew3:15 Jesus replied, “It is only right to do all that God requires.” Then John baptized Jesus." 
Matthew3:15 Jesus replied, “It is only right to do all that God requires.” Then John baptized Jesus." 
Matthew3:16 And as Jesus rose up out of the water, the heavenly realm opened up over him and he saw the Holy Spirit descend out of the heavens and rest upon him in the form of a dove." 
Matthew3:17 Then suddenly the voice of the Father shouted from the sky, saying, “This is my Son—the Beloved! My greatest delight is in him.”" 
Matthew4:1 Afterward, the Holy Spirit led Jesus into the wilderness to experience the ordeal of testing by the accuser." 
Matthew4:2 And after fasting for forty days, Jesus was extremely hungry." 
Matthew4:3 Then the tempter came to him and said, “How can you possibly be the Son of God and go hungry? Just command these stones to be turned into loaves of bread.”" 
Matthew4:4 He answered, “The Scriptures say: Bread alone will not satisfy, but true life is found in every word that constantly goes forth from God’s mouth.”" 
Matthew4:5 Then the accuser transported Jesus to the holy city of Jerusalem and perched him at the highest point of the temple 
Matthew4:6 and said to him, “If you’re really God’s Son, jump, and the angels will catch you. For it is written in the Scriptures: He will command his angels to protect you and they will lift you up so that you won’t even bruise your foot on a rock.”" 
Matthew4:7 Once again Jesus said to him, “The Scriptures say: You must never put the Lord your God to a test.”" 
Matthew4:8 And the third time the accuser lifted Jesus up onto a very high mountain range and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and all the splendor that goes with it. 
Matthew4:9 “All of these kingdoms I will give to you,” the accuser said, “if only you will kneel down before me and worship me.”" 
Matthew4:10 But Jesus said, “Go away, Satan! For the Scriptures say: Kneel before the Lord your God and worship only him.”" 
Matthew4:11 At once the accuser left him, and angels suddenly gathered around Jesus to minister to his needs." 
Matthew4:12 When Jesus heard that John the Baptizer had been thrown into prison, he went back into Galilee." 
Matthew4:12 When Jesus heard that John the Baptizer had been thrown into prison, he went back into Galilee." 
Matthew4:13 Jesus moved from Nazareth to make his home in Capernaum, which is by Lake Galilee in the land of Zebulun and Naphtali." 
Matthew4:14 He did this to make the prophecy of Isaiah come true: 
Matthew4:15 Listen, you who live in the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, along the road to the sea and on the other side of the Jordan, and Galilee—the land of the Gentiles!" 
Matthew4:16 You who spend your days shrouded in darkness can now say, “We have seen a brilliant Light.” And those who live in the dark shadow land of death can now say, “The Dawning Light arises on us.”" 
Matthew4:17 From that time on Jesus began to proclaim his message with these words: “Keep turning away from your sins and come back to God, for heaven’s kingdom realm is now accessible.”" 
Matthew4:18 As he was walking by the shore of Lake Galilee, Jesus noticed two fishermen who were brothers. One was nicknamed Keefa (later called Peter), and the other was Andrew, his brother. Watching as they were casting their nets into the water," 
Matthew4:19 Jesus called out to them and said, “Come and follow me, and I will transform you into men who catch people for God.”" 
Matthew4:20 Immediately they dropped their nets and left everything behind to follow Jesus. 
Matthew4:21 Leaving there, Jesus found three other men sitting in a boat, mending their nets. Two were brothers, Jacob and John, and they were with their father, Zebedee. Jesus called Jacob and John to his side and said to them, “Come and follow me.”" 
Matthew4:21 Leaving there, Jesus found three other men sitting in a boat, mending their nets. Two were brothers, Jacob and John, and they were with their father, Zebedee. Jesus called Jacob and John to his side and said to them, “Come and follow me.”" 
Matthew4:22 And at once they left their boat and their father, and began to follow Jesus." 
Matthew4:23 Jesus ministered from place to place throughout all of the province of Galilee. He taught in the synagogues, preaching the wonderful news of the kingdom and healing every kind of sickness and disease among the people." 
Matthew4:24 His fame spread throughout all Syria! Many people who were in pain and suffering with every kind of illness were brought to Jesus for their healing—epileptics, paralytics, and those tormented by demonic powers were all set free. Everyone who was brought to Jesus was healed!" 
Matthew4:25 This resulted in massive crowds of people following him, including people from Galilee, Jerusalem, the land of Judah, the region of the Ten Cities known as the Decapolis, and beyond the Jordan River." 
Matthew5:1 One day Jesus saw a vast crowd of people gathering to hear him, so he went up the slope of a hill and sat down. With his followers and disciples spread over the hillside," 
Matthew5:2 Jesus began to teach them: 
Matthew5:3 “What happiness comes to you when you feel your spiritual poverty! For yours is the realm of heaven’s kingdom. 
Matthew5:4 “What delight comes to you when you wait upon the Lord! For you will find what you long for. 
Matthew5:5 “What blessing comes to you when gentleness lives in you! For you will inherit the earth. 
Matthew5:6 “How enriched you are when you crave righteousness! For you will be satisfied. 
Matthew5:7 “How blessed you are when you demonstrate tender mercy! For tender mercy will be demonstrated to you. 
Matthew5:8 “What bliss you experience when your heart is pure! For then your eyes will open to see more and more of God. 
Matthew5:9 “How joyful you are when you make peace! For then you will be recognized as a true child of God. 
Matthew5:10 “How enriched you are when persecuted for doing what is right! For then you experience the realm of heaven’s kingdom. 
Matthew5:11 “How blessed you are when people insult and persecute you and speak all kinds of cruel lies about you because of your love for me! 
Matthew5:12 So leap for joy—since your heavenly reward is great. For you are being rejected the same way the prophets were before you. 
Matthew5:13 “Your lives are like salt among the people. But if you, like salt, become bland, how can your ‘saltiness’ be restored? Flavorless salt is good for nothing and will be thrown out and trampled on by others." 
Matthew5:14 “Your lives light up the world. For how can you hide a city that stands on a hilltop? 
Matthew5:15 And who would light a lamp and then hide it in an obscure place? Instead, it’s placed where everyone in the house can benefit from its light." 
Matthew5:16 So don’t hide your light! Let it shine brightly before others, so that your commendable works will shine as light upon them, and then they will give their praise to your Father in heaven.”" 
Matthew5:17 “If you think I’ve come to set aside the law of Moses or the writings of the prophets, you’re mistaken. I have come to bring to perfection all that has been written." 
Matthew5:18 Indeed, I assure you, as long as heaven and earth endure, not even the smallest detail of the Law will be done away with until its purpose is complete." 
Matthew5:19 So whoever violates even the least important of the commandments, and teaches others to do so, will be called least in heaven’s kingdom. But whoever obeys them and teaches their truths to others will be called great in heaven’s kingdom." 
Matthew5:20 For I tell you, unless your lives are more pure and full of integrity than the religious scholars and the Pharisees, you will never enter heaven’s kingdom.”" 
Matthew5:21 “You’re familiar with the commandment taught to those of old: ‘Do not murder or you will be judged.’ 
Matthew5:22 But I’m telling you, if you hold anger in your heart toward a fellow believer, you are subject to judgment. And whoever demeans and insults a fellow believer is answerable to the congregation. And whoever calls down curses upon a fellow believer is in danger of being sent to a fiery hell." 
Matthew5:23 “So then, if you are presenting a gift before the altar and suddenly you remember a quarrel you have with a fellow believer," 
Matthew5:24 leave your gift there in front of the altar and go at once to apologize to the one who is offended. Then, after you have reconciled, come to the altar and present your gift." 
Matthew5:25 It is always better to come to terms with the one who wants to sue you before you go to trial, or you may be found guilty by the judge, and he will hand you over to the officers, who will throw you into prison." 
Matthew5:26 Believe me, you won’t get out of prison until you have paid the full amount!”" 
Matthew5:27 “Your ancestors have been taught, ‘Never commit adultery.’" 
Matthew5:28 However, I say to you, if you look with lust in your eyes at a woman who is not your wife, you’ve already committed adultery in your heart." 
Matthew5:29 If your right eye seduces you to fall into sin, then go blind in your right eye! For you’re better off losing sight in one eye than to have your whole body thrown into hell." 
Matthew5:30 And if your right hand entices you to sin, let it go limp and useless! For you’re better off losing a part of your body than to have it all thrown into hell." 
Matthew5:31 “It has been said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife must give her legal divorce papers.’" 
Matthew5:32 However, I say to you, if anyone divorces his wife for any reason, except for infidelity, he causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.”" 
Matthew5:33 “Again, your ancestors were taught, ‘Never swear an oath that you don’t intend to keep, but keep your vows to the Lord God.’" 
Matthew5:34 However, I say to you, don’t bind yourself by taking an oath at all. Don’t swear by heaven, for heaven is where God’s throne is placed." 
Matthew5:35 Don’t swear an oath by the earth, because it is the rug under God’s feet, and not by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the Great King." 
Matthew5:36 And why would you swear by your own head, because it’s not in your power to turn a single hair white or black? But just let your words ring true." 
Matthew5:37 A simple ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ will suffice. Anything beyond this springs from a deceiver. 
Matthew5:38 “Your ancestors have also been taught, ‘Take an eye in exchange for an eye and a tooth in exchange for a tooth.’" 
Matthew5:39 However, I say to you, don’t repay an evil act with another evil act. But whoever insults you by slapping you on the right cheek, turn the other to him as well." 
Matthew5:40 If someone is determined to sue you for your coat, give him the shirt off your back as a gift in return." 
Matthew5:41 And should people in authority take advantage of you, do more than what they demand." 
Matthew5:42 Learn to generously share what you have with those who ask for help, and don’t close your heart to the one who comes to borrow from you.”" 
Matthew5:43 “Your ancestors have also been taught ‘Love your neighbors and hate the one who hates you.’ 
Matthew5:44 However, I say to you, love your enemy, bless the one who curses you, do something wonderful for the one who hates you, and respond to the very ones who persecute you by praying for them." 
Matthew5:45 For that will reveal your identity as children of your heavenly Father. He is kind to all by bringing the sunrise to warm and rainfall to refresh whether a person does what is good or evil. 
Matthew5:46 What reward do you deserve if you only love the loveable? Don’t even the tax collectors do that? 
Matthew5:47 How are you any different from others if you limit your kindness only to your friends? Don’t even the ungodly do that? 
Matthew5:48 Since you are children of a perfect Father in heaven, become perfect like him.”" 
Matthew6:1 “Examine your motives to make sure you’re not showing off when you do your good deeds, only to be admired by others; otherwise, you will lose the reward of your heavenly Father." 
Matthew6:2 So when you give to the poor, don’t announce it and make a show of it just to be seen by people, like the hypocrites in the streets and in the marketplace. They’ve already received their reward!" 
Matthew6:3 But when you demonstrate generosity, do it with pure motives and without drawing attention to yourself." 
Matthew6:4 Give secretly and your Father, who sees all you do, will reward you openly.”" 
Matthew6:5 “Whenever you pray, be sincere and not like the pretenders who love the attention they receive while praying before others in the meetings and on street corners. Believe me, they’ve already received their reward." 
Matthew6:6 But whenever you pray, go into your innermost chamber and be alone with Father God, praying to him in secret. And your Father, who sees all you do, will reward you openly." 
Matthew6:7 When you pray, there is no need to repeat empty phrases, praying like the Gentiles do, for they expect God to hear them because of their many words." 
Matthew6:8 There is no need to imitate them, since your Father already knows what you need before you ask him." 
Matthew6:9 Pray like this: ‘Our Beloved Father, dwelling in the heavenly realms, may the glory of your name be the center on which our lives turn." 
Matthew6:10 Manifest your kingdom realm, and cause your every purpose to be fulfilled on earth, just as it is in heaven." 
Matthew6:11 We acknowledge you as our Provider of all we need each day. 
Matthew6:12 Forgive us the wrongs we have done as we ourselves release forgiveness to those who have wronged us. 
Matthew6:13 Rescue us every time we face tribulation and set us free from evil. For you are the King who rules with power and glory forever. Amen.’ 
Matthew6:14 “ And when you pray, make sure you forgive the faults of others so that your Father in heaven will also forgive you." 
Matthew6:15 But if you withhold forgiveness from others, your Father withholds forgiveness from you.”" 
Matthew6:16 “When you fast, don’t look gloomy and pretend to be spiritual. They want everyone to know they’re fasting, so they appear in public looking miserable and disheveled. Believe me, they’ve already received their reward." 
Matthew6:17 When you fast, don’t let it be obvious, but instead, wash your face and groom yourself and realize that your Father in the secret place is the one who is watching all that you do in secret and will continue to reward you.”" 
Matthew6:18  
Matthew6:19 “Don’t keep hoarding for yourselves earthly treasures that can be stolen by thieves. Material wealth eventually rusts, decays, and loses its value." 
Matthew6:20 Instead, stockpile heavenly treasures for yourselves that cannot be stolen and will never rust, decay, or lose their value." 
Matthew6:21 For your heart will always pursue what you esteem as your treasure. 
Matthew6:22 “The eyes of your spirit allow revelation-light to enter into your being. If your heart is unclouded, the light floods in!" 
Matthew6:23 But if your eyes are focused on money, the light cannot penetrate and darkness takes its place. How profound will be the darkness within you if the light of truth cannot enter!" 
Matthew6:24 “How could you worship two gods at the same time? You will have to hate one and love the other, or be devoted to one and despise the other. You can’t worship the true God while enslaved to the god of money!”" 
Matthew6:25 “This is why I tell you to never be worried about your life, for all that you need will be provided, such as food, water, clothing—everything your body needs. Isn’t there more to your life than a meal? Isn’t your body more than clothing?" 
Matthew6:26 “Consider the birds—do you think they worry about their existence? They don’t plant or reap or store up food, yet your heavenly Father provides them each with food. Aren’t you much more valuable to your Father than they?" 
Matthew6:27 So, which one of you by worrying could add anything to your life?" 
Matthew6:28 “And why would you worry about your clothing? Look at all the beautiful flowers of the field. They don’t work or toil," 
Matthew6:29 and yet not even Solomon in all his splendor was robed in beauty like one of these! 
Matthew6:30 So if God has clothed the meadow with hay, which is here for such a short time and then dried up and burned, won’t he provide for you the clothes you need—you of little faith?" 
Matthew6:31 “So then, forsake your worries! Why would you say, ‘What will we eat?’ or ‘What will we drink?’ or ‘What will we wear?’" 
Matthew6:32 For that is what the unbelievers chase after. Doesn’t your heavenly Father already know the things your bodies require? 
Matthew6:33 “So above all, constantly seek God’s kingdom and his righteousness, then all these less important things will be given to you abundantly." 
Matthew6:34 Refuse to worry about tomorrow, but deal with each challenge that comes your way, one day at a time. Tomorrow will take care of itself.”" 
Matthew7:1 “Refuse to be a critic full of bias toward others, and you will not be judged." 
Matthew7:2 For you’ll be judged by the same standard that you’ve used to judge others. The measurement you use on them will be used on you. 
Matthew7:3 Why would you focus on the flaw in someone else’s life and fail to notice the glaring flaws of your own? 
Matthew7:4 How could you say to your friend, ‘Let me show you where you’re wrong,’ when you’re guilty of even more?" 
Matthew7:5 You’re being hypercritical and a hypocrite! First acknowledge and deal with your own ‘blind spots,’ and then you’ll be capable of dealing with the ‘blind spot’ of your friend." 
Matthew7:6 “Who would hang earrings on a dog’s ear or throw pearls in front of wild pigs? They’ll only trample them under their feet and then turn around and tear you to pieces! 
Matthew7:7 “Ask, and the gift is yours. Seek, and you’ll discover. Knock, and the door will be opened for you." 
Matthew7:8 For every persistent one will get what he asks for. Every persistent seeker will discover what he longs for. And everyone who knocks persistently will one day find an open door. 
Matthew7:9 “Do you know of any parent who would give his hungry child, who asked for food, a plate of rocks instead?" 
Matthew7:10 Or when asked for a piece of fish, what parent would offer his child a snake instead?" 
Matthew7:11 If you, imperfect as you are, know how to lovingly take care of your children and give them what’s best, how much more ready is your heavenly Father to give wonderful gifts to those who ask him?”" 
Matthew7:12 “In everything you do, be careful to treat others in the same way you’d want them to treat you, for that is the essence of all the teachings of the Law and the Prophets." 
Matthew7:13 Enter through the narrow gate because the wide gate and broad path is the way that leads to destruction—nearly everyone chooses that crowded road! 
Matthew7:14 The narrow gate and the difficult way leads to eternal life—so few even find it!” 
Matthew7:15 “Constantly be on your guard against phony prophets. They come disguised as lambs, appearing to be genuine, but on the inside they are like wild, ravenous wolves!" 
Matthew7:16 You can spot them by their actions, for the fruits of their character will be obvious. You won’t find sweet grapes hanging on a thorn bush, and you’ll never pick good fruit from a tumbleweed." 
Matthew7:17 So if the tree is good, it will produce good fruit; but if the tree is bad, it will bear only rotten fruit and deserves to be cut down and burned." 
Matthew7:18  
Matthew7:19  
Matthew7:20 You’ll know them by the obvious fruit of their lives and ministries.” 
Matthew7:21 “Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into heaven’s kingdom. It is only those who persist in doing the will of my heavenly Father." 
Matthew7:22 On the day of judgment many will say to me, ‘Lord, Lord, don’t you remember us? Didn’t we prophesy in your name? Didn’t we cast out demons and do many miracles in your name?’" 
Matthew7:23 But I will have to say to them, ‘Go away from me, you lawless rebels! I’ve never been joined to you!’" 
Matthew7:24 “Everyone who hears my teaching and applies it to his life can be compared to a wise man who built his house on an unshakable foundation. 
Matthew7:25 When the rains fell and the flood came, with fierce winds beating upon his house, it stood firm because of its strong foundation." 
Matthew7:26 “But everyone who hears my teaching and does not apply it to his life can be compared to a foolish man who built his house on sand. 
Matthew7:27 When it rained and rained and the flood came, with wind and waves beating upon his house, it collapsed and was swept away.”" 
Matthew7:28 By the time Jesus finished speaking, the crowds were awestruck by his teaching," 
Matthew7:29 because his words carried such great authority, quite unlike the religious scholars." 
Matthew8:1 After he came down from teaching on the hillside, massive crowds began following him." 
Matthew8:2 Suddenly, a leper walked up to Jesus and threw himself down before him in worship and said, “Lord, you have the power to heal me . . . if you really want to.”" 
Matthew8:3 Jesus reached out his hand and touched the leper and said, “Of course I want to heal you—be healed!” And instantly, all signs of leprosy disappeared!" 
Matthew8:4 Then Jesus said to him, “Don’t speak to anyone, but go at once and find a priest and show him what has happened to you. Make sure to take the offering Moses commanded so he can certify your healing.”" 
Matthew8:5 When Jesus entered the village of Capernaum, a captain in the Roman army approached him, asking for a miracle." 
Matthew8:6 “Lord,” he said, “I have a son who is lying in my home, paralyzed and suffering terribly.”" 
Matthew8:7 Jesus responded, “I will go with you and heal him.”" 
Matthew8:8 But the Roman officer interjected, “Lord, who am I to have you come into my house? I understand your authority, for I too am a man who walks under authority and have authority over soldiers who serve under me. I can tell one to go and he’ll go, and another to come and he’ll come. I command my servants and they’ll do whatever I ask. So I know that all you need to do is to stand here and command healing over my son and he will be instantly healed.”" 
Matthew8:9  
Matthew8:10 Jesus was astonished when he heard this and said to those who were following him, “He has greater faith than anyone I’ve encountered in Israel!" 
Matthew8:11 Listen to what I am about to tell you. Multitudes of Gentiles will stream from the east and the west, to enter into the heavenly kingdom with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." 
Matthew8:12 But many Israelites, born to be heirs of the kingdom, will be turned away and banished into the darkness where there will be bitter weeping and unbearable anguish.”" 
Matthew8:13 Then Jesus turned to the Roman officer and said, “Go home. All that you have believed for will be done for you!” And his son was healed at that very moment." 
Matthew8:14 Then Jesus entered Peter’s home and found Peter’s mother-in-law bedridden, severely ill with a fever." 
Matthew8:15 The moment Jesus touched her hand she was healed! Immediately she got up and began to make dinner for them. 
Matthew8:16 That evening the people brought to him many who were demonized. And by Jesus only speaking a word of healing over them, they were totally set free from their torment, and everyone who was sick received their healing!" 
Matthew8:17 In doing this, Jesus fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah: He put upon himself our weaknesses, and he carried away our diseases and made us well." 
Matthew8:18 At the sight of large crowds gathering around him, Jesus gave orders to his disciples to get ready to sail back over to the other side of the lake." 
Matthew8:19 Just then, a religious scholar approached him and said, “Teacher, I’ll follow you wherever you go!”" 
Matthew8:20 Jesus replied, “Foxes have dens, birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no true home in this world.”" 
Matthew8:21 Then another man spoke up and said, “Lord, I’ll follow you, but first I must take care of my aged father and bury him when he dies.”" 
Matthew8:22 But Jesus said to him, “Now is the time to follow me, and let those who are dead bury their own dead.”" 
Matthew8:23 They all got into a boat and began to cross over to the other side of the lake. And Jesus, exhausted, fell asleep." 
Matthew8:24 Suddenly a violent storm developed, with waves so high the boat was about to be swamped. Yet Jesus continued to sleep soundly." 
Matthew8:25 The disciples woke him up, saying, “Save us, Lord! We’re going to die!”" 
Matthew8:26 But Jesus reprimanded them. “Why are you gripped with fear? Where is your faith?” Then he stood and rebuked the storm, saying, “Be still!” And instantly it became perfectly calm." 
Matthew8:27 The disciples were astonished by this miracle and said to one another, “Who is this Man? Even the wind and waves obey his Word.”" 
Matthew8:28 When they arrived on the other side of the lake, in the region of the Gadarenes, two demonized men confronted Jesus. They lived among the tombs of a cemetery and were considered so extremely violent that no one felt safe passing through that area." 
Matthew8:29 The demons screamed at Jesus, shouting, “Son of God, what do you want with us? Leave us alone! Have you come to torment us before the appointed time?”" 
Matthew8:30 There was a large herd of pigs feeding nearby. 
Matthew8:31 And the demons pleaded, “If you cast us out, send us into that herd of pigs.”" 
Matthew8:32 Jesus commanded, “Then go!” And at once the demons came out of the men and went into the pigs. Then the entire herd of crazed pigs stampeded down the steep slope and fell into the water and drowned." 
Matthew8:33 The men who were herding the pigs fled to the nearby town and informed the people of all that had happened to the demonized men. 
Matthew8:34 Then everyone from the town went out to confront Jesus and urged him to go away and leave them alone. 
Matthew9:1 Jesus got into the boat and returned to what was considered his hometown, Capernaum." 
Matthew9:2 Just then some people brought a paraplegic man to him, lying on a sleeping mat. When Jesus perceived the strong faith within their hearts, he said to the paralyzed man, “My son, be encouraged, for your sins have been forgiven.”" 
Matthew9:3 These words prompted some of the religious scholars to think, “Why, that’s nothing but blasphemy!”" 
Matthew9:4 Jesus supernaturally perceived their thoughts, and said to them, “Why do you carry such evil in your hearts?" 
Matthew9:5 Which is easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or, ‘Stand up and walk!’?" 
Matthew9:6 But now, to convince you that the Son of Man has been given authority to forgive sins, I say to this man, ‘Stand up, pick up your mat, and walk home.’ ”" 
Matthew9:7 Immediately the man sprang to his feet and left for home. 
Matthew9:8 When the crowds witnessed this miracle, they were awestruck. They shouted praises to God because he had given such authority to human beings." 
Matthew9:9 As Jesus left Capernaum he came upon a tax-collecting station, where a Jewish man named Matthew was collecting taxes for the Romans. “Come, follow me,” Jesus said to him. Immediately Matthew jumped up and began to follow Jesus." 
Matthew9:9 As Jesus left Capernaum he came upon a tax-collecting station, where a Jewish man named Matthew was collecting taxes for the Romans. “Come, follow me,” Jesus said to him. Immediately Matthew jumped up and began to follow Jesus." 
Matthew9:10 Jesus went to Matthew’s house and made himself at home. Many other tax collectors and outcasts of society were invited to eat with Jesus and his disciples. 
Matthew9:11 When those known as the Pharisees saw what was happening, they were indignant, and they kept asking Jesus’ disciples, “Why would your Master dine with such lowlifes?”" 
Matthew9:12 When Jesus overheard this, he spoke up and said, “Healthy people don’t need to see a doctor, but the sick will go for treatment.”" 
Matthew9:13 Then he added, “Now you should go and study the meaning of the verse: I want you to show mercy, not just offer me a sacrifice. For I have come to invite the outcasts of society and sinners, not those who think they are already on the right path.”" 
Matthew9:14 The disciples of John the Baptizer approached Jesus with this question: “Why is it that we and the Pharisees fast regularly, but not your disciples?”" 
Matthew9:14 The disciples of John the Baptizer approached Jesus with this question: “Why is it that we and the Pharisees fast regularly, but not your disciples?”" 
Matthew9:15 Jesus replied, “How can the sons of the bridal chamber grieve when the Bridegroom is next to them? But the days of fasting will come when the Bridegroom is taken away from them." 
Matthew9:16 And who would mend worn-out clothing with new fabric? When the new cloth shrinks it will rip, making the hole worse than before." 
Matthew9:17 And who would pour fresh, new wine into an old wineskin? Eventually the wine will ferment and make the wineskin burst, losing everything—the wine is spilled and the wineskin ruined. Instead, new wine is always poured into a new wineskin so that both are preserved.”" 
Matthew9:18 While Jesus was still speaking, an influential Jewish leader approached and knelt before him, saying, “Help me! My daughter has just died. Please come and place your hand upon her so that she will live again.”" 
Matthew9:19 So Jesus and his disciples got up and went with him. 
Matthew9:20 Suddenly, a woman came from behind Jesus and touched the tassel of his prayer shawl for healing. She had been suffering from continual bleeding for twelve years, but had faith that Jesus could heal her." 
Matthew9:21 For she kept saying to herself, “If I could only touch his prayer shawl I would be healed.”" 
Matthew9:22 Just then Jesus turned around and looked at her and said, “My daughter, be encouraged. Your faith has healed you.” And instantly she was healed!" 
Matthew9:23 When Jesus finally entered the home of the Jewish leader, he saw a noisy crowd of mourners, wailing and playing a funeral dirge on their flutes." 
Matthew9:24 He told them, “You must leave, for the little girl is not dead; she’s only asleep.” Then everyone began to ridicule him." 
Matthew9:25 After he made the crowd go outside, he went into the girl’s room and gently took hold of her hand. She immediately stood to her feet!" 
Matthew9:26 And the news of this incredible miracle spread everywhere. 
Matthew9:27 As Jesus left the house, two blind men began following him, shouting out over and over, “Son of David, show us mercy and heal us!”" 
Matthew9:28 And they followed him right into the house where Jesus was staying. So Jesus asked them, “Do you believe that I have the power to restore sight to your eyes?” They replied, “Yes Lord, we believe!”" 
Matthew9:29 Then Jesus put his hands over their eyes and said, “You will have what your faith expects!”" 
Matthew9:30 And instantly their eyes opened—they could see! Then Jesus warned them sternly, “Make sure that you tell no one what just happened!”" 
Matthew9:31 But unable to contain themselves, they went out and spread the news everywhere!" 
Matthew9:32 While they were leaving, some people brought before Jesus a demonized man who couldn’t speak." 
Matthew9:33 Jesus cast the demon out of him, and immediately the man began to speak plainly. The crowds marveled in astonishment, saying, “We’ve never seen miracles like this in Israel!”" 
Matthew9:34 But the Pharisees kept saying, “The chief of demons is helping him drive out demons.”" 
Matthew9:35 Jesus walked throughout the region with the joyful message of God’s kingdom realm. He taught in their meeting houses, and wherever he went he demonstrated God’s power by healing every kind of disease and illness." 
Matthew9:36 When he saw the vast crowds of people, Jesus’ heart was deeply moved with compassion, because they seemed weary and helpless, like wandering sheep without a shepherd." 
Matthew9:37 He turned to his disciples and said, “The harvest is huge and ripe! But there are not enough harvesters to bring it all in." 
Matthew9:38 As you go, plead with the Owner of the Harvest to thrust out many more reapers to harvest his grain!”" 
Matthew10:1 Jesus gathered his twelve disciples and imparted to them authority to cast out demons and to heal every sickness and every disease. 
Matthew10:2 Now, these are the names of the twelve apostles: first, Simon, who is nicknamed Peter, and Andrew, his brother. And then Jacob and John, sons of Zebedee." 
Matthew10:2 Now, these are the names of the twelve apostles: first, Simon, who is nicknamed Peter, and Andrew, his brother. And then Jacob and John, sons of Zebedee." 
Matthew10:3 Next were Phillip and Bartholomew; then Thomas and Matthew, the tax collector; Jacob the son of Alphaeus; Thaddeus;" 
Matthew10:4 Simon, the former member of the Zealot party, and Judas the locksmith, who eventually betrayed Jesus." 
Matthew10:5 Jesus sent out the Twelve with these instructions: “Don’t go into any Gentile or Samaritan territory. 
Matthew10:6 Go instead and find the lost sheep among the people of Israel. 
Matthew10:7 And as you go, preach this message: ‘Heaven’s kingdom realm is accessible, close enough to touch.’" 
Matthew10:8 You must continually bring healing to lepers and to those who are sick, and make it your habit to break off the demonic presence from people, and raise the dead back to life. Freely you have received the power of the kingdom, so freely release it to others." 
Matthew10:9 You won’t need a lot of money. 
Matthew10:10 Travel light, and don’t even pack an extra change of clothes in your backpack. Trust God for everything, because the one who works for him deserves to be provided for." 
Matthew10:11 “Whatever village or town you enter, search for an honorable man who will let you into his home until you leave for the next town." 
Matthew10:12 Once you enter a house, speak to the family there and say, ‘God’s blessing of peace be upon this house!’" 
Matthew10:13 And if those living there welcome you, let your peace come upon the house. But if you are rejected, that blessing of peace will come back upon you." 
Matthew10:14 And if anyone doesn’t listen to you and rejects your message, when you leave that house or town, shake the dust off your feet." 
Matthew10:15 Mark my words, on the day of judgment the wicked people who lived in the land of Sodom and Gomorrah will have a lesser degree of judgment than the city that rejects you, for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah did not have the opportunity that was given to them!" 
Matthew10:15 Mark my words, on the day of judgment the wicked people who lived in the land of Sodom and Gomorrah will have a lesser degree of judgment than the city that rejects you, for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah did not have the opportunity that was given to them!" 
Matthew10:16 Now, remember, it is I who sends you out, even though you feel vulnerable as lambs going into a pack of wolves. So be as shrewd as snakes yet as harmless as doves.”" 
Matthew10:17 “Be on your guard! For there will be those who will betray you before their religious councils and brutally beat you with whips in their public gatherings. 
Matthew10:18 And because you follow me, they will take you to stand trial in front of rulers and even kings as an opportunity to testify of me before them and the unbelievers." 
Matthew10:19 So when they arrest you, don’t worry about how to speak or what you are to say, for the Holy Spirit will give you at that very moment the words to speak." 
Matthew10:20 It won’t be you speaking but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. 
Matthew10:21 “A brother will betray his brother unto death—even a father his child! Children will rise up against their parents and have them put to death. 
Matthew10:22 Expect to be hated by all because of my name, but be faithful to the end and you will experience life and deliverance." 
Matthew10:23 And when they persecute you in one town, flee to another. But I promise you this: you will not deliver all the cities and towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes." 
Matthew10:24 “A student is not superior to his teacher any more than a servant would be greater than his master. 
Matthew10:25 The student must be satisfied to share his teacher’s fate and the servant his master’s. If they have called the head of the family ‘lord of flies,’ no wonder they malign the members of his family." 
Matthew10:26 “Don’t be afraid or intimidated by others, for God will bring everything out into the open and every secret will be told." 
Matthew10:27 What I say to you in the dark, repeat in broad daylight, and what you hear in a whisper, announce it publicly." 
Matthew10:28 Don’t be in fear of those who can kill only the body but not your soul. Fear only God, who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell." 
Matthew10:29 You can buy two sparrows for only a copper coin, yet not even one sparrow falls from its nest without the knowledge of your Father. Aren’t you worth much more to God than many sparrows?" 
Matthew10:30 So don’t worry. For your Father cares deeply about even the smallest detail of your life. 
Matthew10:31  
Matthew10:32 “If you openly and publicly acknowledge me, I will freely and openly acknowledge you before my heavenly Father." 
Matthew10:33 But if you publicly deny that you know me, I will also deny you before my heavenly Father." 
Matthew10:34 “Perhaps you think I’ve come to spread peace and calm over the earth—but my coming will bring conflict and division, not peace." 
Matthew10:35 Because of me, A son will turn against his father, a daughter her mother and against her mother-in-law." 
Matthew10:36 Within your own families you will find enemies. 
Matthew10:37 “Whoever loves father or mother or son or daughter more than me is not fit to be my disciple. 
Matthew10:38 And whoever comes to me must follow in my steps and be willing to share my cross and experience it as his own, or he is not worthy of me." 
Matthew10:39 Those who cling to their lives will give up true life. But those who let go of their lives for my sake and surrender it all to me will discover true life! 
Matthew10:40 “Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives the One who sent me." 
Matthew10:41 Whoever receives a prophet because he is God’s messenger will share a prophet’s reward. And whoever welcomes a righteous person because he follows me will also share in his reward. 
Matthew10:42 And whoever gives a cup of cold water to one of my disciples, I promise you, he will not go unrewarded.”" 
Matthew11:1 After Jesus finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he went on to minister in different villages throughout the region." 
Matthew11:2 Now, while John the Baptizer was in prison, he heard about the wonderful deeds of the Christ, so he sent his disciples to ask him this question:" 
Matthew11:2 Now, while John the Baptizer was in prison, he heard about the wonderful deeds of the Christ, so he sent his disciples to ask him this question:" 
Matthew11:3 “Are you really the one the prophets said would come, or should we still wait for another?”" 
Matthew11:4 Jesus answered them, “Give John this report:" 
Matthew11:4 Jesus answered them, “Give John this report:" 
Matthew11:5 ‘The blind see again, the crippled walk, lepers are cured, the deaf hear, the dead are raised back to life, and the poor and broken now hear of the hope of salvation!’" 
Matthew11:6 And tell John that the blessing of heaven comes to those who are not offended over me.” 
Matthew11:6 And tell John that the blessing of heaven comes to those who are not offended over me.” 
Matthew11:7 As they were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John. “What kind of man did you see when you went out into the wilderness? Did you expect to see a man who would be easily intimidated?" 
Matthew11:7 As they were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John. “What kind of man did you see when you went out into the wilderness? Did you expect to see a man who would be easily intimidated?" 
Matthew11:8 Who was he? Did you expect to see a man decked out in the splendid fashion of the day? Those who wear fancy clothes live like kings in palaces. 
Matthew11:9 Or did you encounter a true prophet out in the lonely wilderness? Yes, John was a prophet like those of the past, but he is even more than that!" 
Matthew11:9 Or did you encounter a true prophet out in the lonely wilderness? Yes, John was a prophet like those of the past, but he is even more than that!" 
Matthew11:10 He was the fulfillment of this Scripture: See, I am sending my prophetic messenger who will go ahead of me and prepare hearts to receive me." 
Matthew11:11 “For I tell you the truth, throughout history there has never been a man who surpasses John the Baptizer. Yet the least of those who now experience heaven’s kingdom will become even greater than he." 
Matthew11:11 “For I tell you the truth, throughout history there has never been a man who surpasses John the Baptizer. Yet the least of those who now experience heaven’s kingdom will become even greater than he." 
Matthew11:12 From the moment John stepped onto the scene until now, the realm of heaven’s kingdom is bursting forth, and passionate people have taken hold of its power." 
Matthew11:12 From the moment John stepped onto the scene until now, the realm of heaven’s kingdom is bursting forth, and passionate people have taken hold of its power." 
Matthew11:13 For all the prophets and the Torah prophesied until John appeared. 
Matthew11:13 For all the prophets and the Torah prophesied until John appeared. 
Matthew11:14 If you can receive this truth, John is the Elijah who was destined to come." 
Matthew11:14 If you can receive this truth, John is the Elijah who was destined to come." 
Matthew11:15 So listen and understand what I’m telling you. 
Matthew11:16 “How could I describe the people of this generation? You’re like children playing games on the playground, yelling at their playmates," 
Matthew11:17 ‘You don’t like it when we want to play Wedding! And you don’t like it when we want to play Funeral! You will neither dance nor mourn.’ 
Matthew11:18 Why is it that when John came to you, neither feasting nor drinking wine, you said, ‘He has a demon in him!’?" 
Matthew11:18 Why is it that when John came to you, neither feasting nor drinking wine, you said, ‘He has a demon in him!’?" 
Matthew11:19 Yet when the Son of Man came and went to feasts and drank wine, you said, ‘Look at this man! He is nothing but a glutton and a drunkard! He spends all his time with tax collectors and other sinners.’ But God’s wisdom will become visible by those who embrace it.”" 
Matthew11:20 Then Jesus began to openly denounce the cities where he had done most of his mighty miracles, because the people failed to turn away from sin and return to God." 
Matthew11:21 He said, “How tragic it will be for the city of Korazin! And how horrible for the city of Bethsaida! For if the powerful miracles that I performed in Korazin and Bethsaida had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have humbled themselves and repented, and turned from their sins." 
Matthew11:22 Tyre and Sidon will be better off on judgment day than you! 
Matthew11:23 And Capernaum—do you really think you’ll be exalted because of the great miracles I have done there? No! You’ll be brought down to the depths of hell because of your rejection of me. For if the miracles I worked in your streets were done in Sodom, it would still be standing today!" 
Matthew11:24 But I tell you, it will be more bearable for the region of Sodom in the day of judgment than it will be for you.”" 
Matthew11:25 Then Jesus exclaimed, “Father, thank you, for you are Lord, the Supreme Ruler over heaven and earth! And you have hidden the great revelation of your authority from those who are proud and think they are wise and unveiled it instead to little children." 
Matthew11:26 Yes, Father, you’ve chosen this gracious plan to extend your kingdom." 
Matthew11:27 You have entrusted me with all that you are and all that you have. No one fully and intimately knows the Son except the Father. And no one fully and intimately knows the Father except the Son. But the Son is able to unveil the Father to anyone he chooses. 
Matthew11:28 “Are you weary, carrying a heavy burden? Come to me. I will refresh your life, for I am your oasis." 
Matthew11:29 Simply join your life with mine. Learn my ways and you’ll discover that I’m gentle, humble, easy to please. You will find refreshment and rest in me." 
Matthew11:30 For all that I require of you will be pleasant and easy to bear.” 
Matthew12:1 One Saturday, on the day of rest, Jesus and his disciples were walking through a field of wheat. The disciples were hungry, so they plucked off some heads of grain and rubbed them in their hands to eat." 
Matthew12:2 But when some of the Pharisees saw what was happening, they said to him, “Look! Your disciples shouldn’t be harvesting grain on the Sabbath!”" 
Matthew12:3 Jesus responded, “Haven’t you ever read what King David and his men did when they were hungry?" 
Matthew12:4 They entered the house of God and ate the sacred bread of God’s presence, violating the law by eating bread that only the priests were allowed to eat." 
Matthew12:5 “And haven’t you read in the Torah that the priests violated the rules of the Sabbath by carrying out their duties in the temple on a Saturday, and yet they are without blame?" 
Matthew12:6 But I say to you, there is one here who is even greater than the temple." 
Matthew12:7 If only you could learn the meaning of the words ‘I want compassion more than a sacrifice,’ you wouldn’t be condemning my innocent disciples." 
Matthew12:8 For the Son of Man exercises his lordship over the Sabbath.” 
Matthew12:9 Then Jesus left them and went into the synagogue where 
Matthew12:10 he encountered a man who had an atrophied, paralyzed hand. The fault-finding Pharisees asked Jesus, “Is it permissible to perform a work of healing on the Sabbath?” They only asked him this question because they hoped to accuse him of breaking the Jewish laws." 
Matthew12:11 He answered them, “If any of you had a lamb that fell into a ditch on the Sabbath, wouldn’t you reach out your hand and lift it out?" 
Matthew12:12 Isn’t a man much more valuable than a lamb? So of course, it’s always proper to do miracles, even on the Sabbath.”" 
Matthew12:13 Then he turned to the man and said, “Hold out your hand!” And as he stretched it out, it was restored, exactly like the other." 
Matthew12:14 Immediately the Pharisees went out and started to scheme about how they would destroy him. 
Matthew12:15 Jesus knew what they were thinking, so he left by another way. Massive crowds followed him from there, and he healed all who were sick." 
Matthew12:16 However, he sternly warned them not to tell others or disclose his real identity," 
Matthew12:17 in order to fulfill the prophecy of Isaiah: 
Matthew12:18 Take a careful look at my servant, my chosen one. I love him dearly and I find all my delight in him. I will breathe my Spirit upon him and he will decree justice to the nations." 
Matthew12:19 He will not quarrel or raise his voice in public. 
Matthew12:20 He won’t brush aside the bruised and broken. He will be gentle with the weak and feeble, until his victory releases justice." 
Matthew12:21 And the fame of his name will birth hope among the people. 
Matthew12:22 Then a man was brought before Jesus who had a demon spirit that made him both blind and mute. Jesus healed him instantly, and he could see and talk again!" 
Matthew12:23 The crowds went wild with amazement as they witnessed this miracle. And they kept saying to one another, “Could this man be the Messiah?”" 
Matthew12:24 But when the Pharisees overheard what the people were saying, they said, “He casts out demons by the power of Satan, the prince of demons!”" 
Matthew12:25 Jesus supernaturally perceived their thoughts and motives, so he told them this parable: “Any kingdom that fights against itself is reduced to ruins. And any family or community splintered by strife will fall apart." 
Matthew12:26 So if Satan casts out Satan, he is making war on himself. How then could his kingdom stand?" 
Matthew12:27 So if Satan empowers me to cast out demons, who empowers your exorcists to cast them out? Go ask them, let them be your judges." 
Matthew12:28 But, if I drive out demons by the power of the Spirit of God, then the end of Satan’s kingdom has come!" 
Matthew12:29 Who would dare enter the house of a mighty man and steal his property? First he must be overpowered and tied up by one who is stronger than he. Then his entire house can be plundered. 
Matthew12:30 “ So join with me, for if you’re not on my side you are against me. And if you refuse to help me gather the spoils, you are making things worse." 
Matthew12:31 This is why I warn you. God will forgive people for every sin and blasphemy except one. There is no forgiveness for the sin of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. 
Matthew12:32 If anyone speaks evil of me, the Son of Man, he can be forgiven; but if anyone speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will never be forgiven, now or ever!”" 
Matthew12:33 “You must determine if a tree is good or rotten. You can recognize good trees by their delicious fruit. But if you find rotten fruit, you can be certain that the tree is rotten. The fruit defines the tree." 
Matthew12:34 But you who are known as the Pharisees are rotten to the core like venomous snakes. How can your words be good if you are rotten within? For what has been stored up in your hearts will be heard in the overflow of your words! 
Matthew12:35 “When virtue is stored within, the hearts of good, upright people will produce good fruit. But when evil is hidden within, those who are evil will produce evil fruit." 
Matthew12:36 You can be sure of this: when the day of judgment comes, everyone will be held accountable for every careless word he has spoken." 
Matthew12:37 Your very words will be used as evidence, and your words will declare you either innocent or guilty.”" 
Matthew12:38 Then a few Jewish scholars and Pharisees spoke up and said, “Teacher, why don’t you perform a miraculous sign for us.”" 
Matthew12:39 Jesus replied, “Only evil people who are unfaithful to God would demand a sign. There will be no sign given to you except the sign of the prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 For as Jonah was in the belly of the huge sea creature for three days and three nights, so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights." 
Matthew12:41 The people of Nineveh will also rise up on the day of judgment to condemn this generation. For they all repented when they heard the preaching of Jonah. And there is one greater than Jonah here preaching to you today! 
Matthew12:42 Even the Queen of Sheba will rise up on the day of judgment to condemn this generation for its unbelief! She journeyed from a far and distant land just to hear the wisdom of King Solomon. Yet now there is one greater than Solomon speaking to you today.” 
Matthew12:43 “When a demon is cast out of a person, it roams around a dry region, looking for a place to rest, but never finds it." 
Matthew12:44 Then it says, ‘I’ll return to the house I moved out of,’ and so it goes back, only to find that the house is vacant, warm, and ready for it to move back in." 
Matthew12:45 So it goes looking for seven other demons more evil than itself, and they all enter together to live there. Then the person’s condition becomes much worse than it was in the beginning. This describes what will also happen to the people of this evil generation.”" 
Matthew12:46 While Jesus was still speaking to the crowds, his mother and brothers came and stood outside, asking for him to come out and speak with them." 
Matthew12:47 Then someone said, “Look, your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to have a word with you.”" 
Matthew12:48 But Jesus just looked at him and said, “Let me introduce you to my true mother and brothers.”" 
Matthew12:49 Then gesturing to the disciples gathered around him, he said, “Look closely, for this is my true family." 
Matthew12:50 When you obey my heavenly Father, that makes you a part of my true family.”" 
Matthew13:1 Later that day, Jesus left the house and sat by the lakeshore to teach the people." 
Matthew13:2 Soon, there were so many people surrounding him that he had to teach sitting in a boat while the large crowd stood on the shore." 
Matthew13:3 He taught them many things by using stories, parables to illustrate spiritual truths, saying: “Consider this: There was a farmer who went out to sow seeds." 
Matthew13:4 As he cast his seeds, some fell along the beaten path and the birds came and ate them." 
Matthew13:5 Others fell onto gravel that had no topsoil. They quickly shot up," 
Matthew13:6 but when the days grew hot, they were scorched and withered because they had insufficient roots." 
Matthew13:7 Others fell among the thorns, so when they sprouted, the thorns choked them." 
Matthew13:8 But other seeds fell on good, rich soil that kept producing a good harvest. Some yielded thirty, some sixty, and some even one hundred times as much as he planted!" 
Matthew13:9 If you’re able to understand this, then you need to respond.”" 
Matthew13:10 Then his disciples approached Jesus and asked, “Why do you always speak to people in these hard-to-understand parables?”" 
Matthew13:11 He explained, “You’ve been given the intimate experience of insight into the hidden mysteries of the realm of heaven’s kingdom, but they have not." 
Matthew13:12 For everyone who listens with an open heart will receive progressively more revelation until he has more than enough. But those who don’t listen with an open, teachable heart, even the understanding that they think they have will be taken from them." 
Matthew13:13 That’s why I teach the people using parables, because they think they’re looking for truth, yet because their hearts are unteachable, they never discover it. Although they will listen to me, they never fully perceive the message I speak." 
Matthew13:14 The prophecy of Isaiah describes them perfectly: Although they listen carefully to everything I speak, they don’t understand a thing I say. They look and pretend to see, but the eyes of their hearts are closed." 
Matthew13:15 Their minds are dull and slow to perceive, their ears are plugged and are hard of hearing, and they have deliberately shut their eyes to the truth. Otherwise they would open their eyes to see, and open their ears to hear, and open their minds to understand. Then they would turn to me and I would instantly heal them." 
Matthew13:16 “But blissful are your eyes, for they see. Delighted are your ears, for they are open to hear all these things." 
Matthew13:17 Many prophets and godly people yearned to see these days of miracles that you’ve been favored to see. They would have given everything to hear the revelation you’ve been favored to hear. 
Matthew13:18 “Now you are ready to hear the explanation of the parable of the sower: 
Matthew13:19 “What was sown along the path represents the one who listens to the message of the kingdom but doesn’t understand it. The Adversary then comes and snatches away what was sown into his heart. 
Matthew13:20 “The one sown on gravel represents the person who gladly hears the kingdom message, but his experience remains shallow." 
Matthew13:21 Shortly after he hears it, troubles and persecutions come because of the kingdom message he received. Then he quickly falls away, for the truth didn’t sink deeply into his heart." 
Matthew13:22 “The one sown among thorns represents one who receives the message, but all of life’s busy distractions, his divided heart, and his ambition for wealth result in suffocating the kingdom message and it becomes fruitless." 
Matthew13:23 “But what was sown on good, rich soil represents the one who hears and fully embraces the message of the kingdom. Their lives bear good fruit—some yield a harvest of thirty, sixty, even one hundred times as much as was sown.”" 
Matthew13:24 Then Jesus taught them another parable: “Heaven’s kingdom can be compared to a farmer who planted good seed in his field. 
Matthew13:25 But when everyone was asleep, an enemy came and planted weeds among the wheat and ran away." 
Matthew13:26 When the wheat sprouted and bore grain, the weeds also appeared." 
Matthew13:27 So the farmer’s hired hands came to him and said, ‘Sir, wasn’t that good seed that you sowed in the field? Where did all these weeds come from?’" 
Matthew13:28 “He answered, ‘This has to be the work of an enemy!’ “They replied, ‘Do you want us to go and gather up all the weeds?’" 
Matthew13:29 “ ‘No,’ he said. ‘If you pull out the weeds you might uproot the wheat at the same time." 
Matthew13:30 Let them both grow together until the harvest. At that time, I’ll tell my harvesters to gather the weeds first and tie them all in bundles to be burned. Then they will harvest the wheat and put it into my barn.’ ”" 
Matthew13:31 Then Jesus taught them another parable: “Heaven’s kingdom can be compared to the tiny mustard seed that a man takes and plants in his field. 
Matthew13:32 Although the smallest of all the seeds, it eventually grows into the greatest of garden plants, becoming a tree for birds to come and build their nests in its branches.”" 
Matthew13:33 Then he taught them another parable: “Heaven’s kingdom can be compared to yeast that a woman takes and blends into three measures of flour and then waits until all the dough rises.” 
Matthew13:34 Whenever Jesus addressed the crowds, he always spoke in allegories. He never spoke without using parables." 
Matthew13:35 He did this to fulfill the prophecy: I will speak to you in allegories. I will reveal secrets that have been concealed since before the foundation of the world. 
Matthew13:36 Jesus left the crowds and went inside the house where he was staying. Then his disciples approached him and asked, “Please explain the deeper meaning of the parable of the weeds growing in the field of wheat.”" 
Matthew13:37 He answered, “The man who sowed his field with good seed is the Son of Man." 
Matthew13:38 And the field is the world. The good seeds I sow are the children of the kingdom realm. The weeds are the children of the Evil One," 
Matthew13:39 and the enemy who sows them is the devil. The harvest points to the end of this age, and the harvesters are God’s messengers." 
Matthew13:40 As the weeds are bundled up and thrown into the fire, so it will be at the close of the age." 
Matthew13:41 The Son of Man will send his messengers, and they will uproot everything out of his kingdom. All the lawless ones and everything that causes sin will be removed." 
Matthew13:42 And they will throw them into the fiery furnace, where they will experience great sorrow and anguish." 
Matthew13:43 Then the righteous will shine like the brightness of the sun in their Father’s kingdom realm. If you’re able to understand this, then you’d better respond!”" 
Matthew13:44 “Heaven’s kingdom realm can be illustrated like this: “A person discovered that there was hidden treasure in a field. Upon finding it, he hid it again. Because of uncovering such treasure, he was overjoyed and sold all that he possessed to buy the entire field just so he could have the treasure." 
Matthew13:45 “Heaven’s kingdom realm is also like a jewel merchant in search of rare pearls. 
Matthew13:46 When he discovered one very precious and exquisite pearl, he immediately gave up all he had in exchange for it.”" 
Matthew13:47 “Again, heaven’s kingdom realm is like a fisherman who casts his large net into the lake, catching an assortment of fish." 
Matthew13:48 When the net was filled, the fishermen hauled it up on the shore, and they all sat down to sort out their catch. They collected the good in baskets and threw the bad away." 
Matthew13:49 And so it will be at the close of the age. The messengers will come and separate the evil from among the godly 
Matthew13:50 and throw them into the fiery furnace, where they will experience great sorrow and anguish." 
Matthew13:51 Now do you understand all this?” “Yes,” they replied." 
Matthew13:52 He responded, “Every scholar of the Scriptures, who is instructed in the ways of heaven’s kingdom realm, is like a wealthy home owner with his house filled with treasures both new and old.”" 
Matthew13:53 Right after Jesus taught this series of parables, he left from there." 
Matthew13:54 When Jesus arrived in his hometown of Nazareth, he began teaching the people in the synagogue. Everyone was dazed, overwhelmed with astonishment over the depth of revelation they were hearing. They said to one another, “Where did this man get such great wisdom and miraculous powers?" 
Matthew13:55 Isn’t he just the craftsman’s son? Isn’t his mother named Mary, and his four brothers Jacob, Joseph, Simon, and Judah?" 
Matthew13:56 And don’t his sisters all live here in Nazareth? From where then did he get all this revelation and power?” 
Matthew13:57 And the people became offended and began to turn against him. Jesus said, “There’s only one place a prophet isn’t honored—his own hometown!”" 
Matthew13:58 And their unbelief kept him from doing many mighty miracles in Nazareth. 
Matthew14:1 At that time Herod, the Roman ruler over Galilee, heard reports about Jesus." 
Matthew14:2 He told his officials, “This man has to be John the Baptizer who has come back from the dead. That’s why he has this power to work miracles.”" 
Matthew14:2 He told his officials, “This man has to be John the Baptizer who has come back from the dead. That’s why he has this power to work miracles.”" 
Matthew14:3 For Herod had earlier arrested John for confronting him for taking the wife of his brother Philip. He had John thrown in prison and placed in chains 
Matthew14:3 For Herod had earlier arrested John for confronting him for taking the wife of his brother Philip. He had John thrown in prison and placed in chains 
Matthew14:4 because John had repeatedly said to him, “It’s not legal or proper for you to be married to Herodias, your sister-in-law!”" 
Matthew14:4 because John had repeatedly said to him, “It’s not legal or proper for you to be married to Herodias, your sister-in-law!”" 
Matthew14:5 So Herod wanted John dead, but he was afraid of the crowds who flocked to John because they considered him to be a prophet." 
Matthew14:5 So Herod wanted John dead, but he was afraid of the crowds who flocked to John because they considered him to be a prophet." 
Matthew14:6 During Herod’s birthday celebration, the daughter of Herodias danced before Herod and all his distinguished guests, which greatly pleased the king." 
Matthew14:7 So he said to her in front of them all, “I give you my oath, ask of me anything you wish and it will be yours!”" 
Matthew14:8 Because she had been instructed by her mother, she said, “I want the head of John the Baptizer here on a platter!”" 
Matthew14:8 Because she had been instructed by her mother, she said, “I want the head of John the Baptizer here on a platter!”" 
Matthew14:9 This grieved the king, but because of his oath in front of all of his guests," 
Matthew14:10 he had John beheaded in prison. 
Matthew14:10 he had John beheaded in prison. 
Matthew14:11 They brought in his head and displayed it to her on a platter, and she then had it shown to her mother." 
Matthew14:12 John’s disciples went into the prison and carried his body away and buried it. Then they left to find Jesus and tell him what had happened. 
Matthew14:12 John’s disciples went into the prison and carried his body away and buried it. Then they left to find Jesus and tell him what had happened. 
Matthew14:13 On hearing this, Jesus slipped away privately by boat to be alone. But when the crowds discovered he had sailed away, they emerged from all the nearby towns and followed him on foot." 
Matthew14:14 So when Jesus landed he had a huge crowd waiting for him. Seeing so many people, his heart was deeply moved with compassion toward them, so he healed all the sick who were in the crowd." 
Matthew14:15 Later that afternoon the disciples came to Jesus and said, “It’s going to be dark soon and the people are hungry, but there’s nothing to eat here in this desolate place. You should send the crowds away to the nearby villages to buy themselves some food.”" 
Matthew14:16 “They don’t need to leave,” Jesus responded. “You can give them something to eat.”" 
Matthew14:17 They answered, “But all we have is five barley loaves and two fish.”" 
Matthew14:18 “Let me have them,” Jesus replied." 
Matthew14:19 Then he had everyone sit down on the grass and he then took the five loaves and two fish. He looked up into heaven, gave thanks to God, and broke the bread into pieces. He then gave it to his disciples, who in turn gave it to the crowds." 
Matthew14:20 And everyone ate until they were satisfied, for the food was multiplied in front of their eyes! They picked up the leftovers and filled up twelve baskets full!" 
Matthew14:21 There were about five thousand men who were fed, in addition to many women and children!" 
Matthew14:22 As soon as the people were fed, Jesus told his disciples to get into their boat and to go to the other side of the lake while he stayed behind to dismiss the people." 
Matthew14:23 After the crowds dispersed, Jesus went up into the hills to pray. And as night fell he was there praying alone." 
Matthew14:24 But the disciples, who were now in the middle of the lake, ran into trouble, for their boat was tossed about by the high winds and heavy seas." 
Matthew14:25 At about four o’clock in the morning, Jesus came to them, walking on the waves!" 
Matthew14:26 When the disciples saw him walking on top of the water, they were terrified and screamed, “A ghost!”" 
Matthew14:27 Then Jesus said, “Be brave and don’t be afraid. I am here!”" 
Matthew14:28 Peter shouted out, “Lord, if it’s really you, then have me join you on the water!”" 
Matthew14:29 “Come and join me,” Jesus replied. So Peter stepped out onto the water and began to walk toward Jesus." 
Matthew14:30 But when he realized how high the waves were, he became frightened and started to sink. “Save me, Lord!” he cried out." 
Matthew14:31 Jesus immediately stretched out his hand and lifted him up and said, “What little faith you have! Why would you let doubt win?”" 
Matthew14:32 And the very moment they both stepped into the boat, the raging wind ceased." 
Matthew14:33 Then all the disciples bowed down before him and worshiped Jesus. They said in adoration, “You are truly the Son of God!”" 
Matthew14:34 After they crossed over and landed at Gennesaret," 
Matthew14:35 the people living there quickly recognized who he was. They were quick to spread the news throughout the surrounding region that Jesus had come to them. 
Matthew14:36 So they brought him all their sick, begging him to let them touch the fringe of his cloak. And everyone who touched it was instantly healed!" 
Matthew15:1 Then the Pharisees and religious scholars came from Jerusalem and asked Jesus this question: 
Matthew15:2 “Why do your disciples ignore the traditions of our elders? For example, they don’t ceremonially wash their hands before they eat bread.”" 
Matthew15:3 Jesus answered, “And why do you ignore the commandment of God because of your traditions?" 
Matthew15:4 For didn’t God say, ‘Honor your father and mother,’ and, ‘Whoever abuses or insults his father or mother must be put to death?’" 
Matthew15:5 “But you teach that it’s permissible to say to your parents when they are in financial need, ‘Whatever gift you would have received from me I can keep for myself, since I dedicated it as an offering to God.’" 
Matthew15:6 This doesn’t honor your father or mother. And you have elevated your tradition above the words of God. 
Matthew15:7 Frauds and hypocrites! Isaiah described you perfectly when he said: 
Matthew15:8 These people honor me only with their words, for their hearts are so very distant from me." 
Matthew15:9 They pretend to worship me, but their worship is nothing more than the empty traditions of men.”" 
Matthew15:10 Then Jesus turned to the crowd and said, “Come, listen and open your heart to understand." 
Matthew15:11 What truly contaminates a person is not what he puts into his mouth but what comes out of his mouth. That’s what makes people defiled.” 
Matthew15:12 Then his disciples approached him and said, “Don’t you know that what you just said offended the Pharisees?”" 
Matthew15:13 Jesus replied, “Every plant that my heavenly Father didn’t plant is destined to be uprooted." 
Matthew15:14 Stay away from them, for they’re nothing more than blind guides. Do you know what happens when a blind man pretends to guide another blind man? They both stumble into a ditch!”" 
Matthew15:15 Peter spoke up and said, “Will you explain to us what you mean by your parable?”" 
Matthew15:16 Jesus said, “Even after all that I’ve taught you, you still remain clueless?" 
Matthew15:17 Is it hard to understand that whatever you eat enters the stomach only to pass out into the sewer? 
Matthew15:18 But what comes out of your mouth reveals the core of your heart. Words can pollute, not food." 
Matthew15:19 You will find living within an impure heart evil ideas, murderous thoughts, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, lies, and slander." 
Matthew15:20 That’s what pollutes a person. Eating with unwashed hands doesn’t defile anyone.” 
Matthew15:21 Then Jesus left and went north into the non-Jewish region of Lebanon. 
Matthew15:22 He encountered there a Canaanite woman who shouted out to him, “Lord, Son of David, show mercy to me! My daughter is horribly afflicted by a demon that torments her.”" 
Matthew15:23 But Jesus never answered her. So his disciples said to him, “Why do you ignore this woman who is crying out to us?”" 
Matthew15:24 Jesus said, “I’ve only been sent to the lost sheep of Israel.”" 
Matthew15:25 But she came and bowed down before him and said, “Lord, help me!”" 
Matthew15:26 Jesus responded, “It’s not right for a man to take bread from his children and throw it out to the dogs.”" 
Matthew15:27 “You’re right, Lord,” she replied. “But even puppies get to eat the crumbs that fall from the prince’s table.”" 
Matthew15:28 Then Jesus answered her, “Dear woman, your faith is strong! What you desire will be done for you.” And at that very moment, her daughter was instantly set free from demonic torment." 
Matthew15:29 After leaving Lebanon, Jesus went to Lake Galilee and climbed a hill nearby and sat down." 
Matthew15:30 Then huge crowds of people streamed up the hill, bringing with them the lame, blind, deformed, mute, and many others in need of healing. They laid them at Jesus’ feet and he healed them all." 
Matthew15:31 And the crowds marveled with amazement, astounded over the things they were witnessing with their own eyes! The lame were walking, the mute were speaking, the crippled were made well, and the blind could see. For three days everyone celebrated the miracles as they exalted and praised the God of Israel!" 
Matthew15:32 Jesus called his disciples to himself and said, “I care deeply about all these people, for they’ve already been with me for three days without food. I don’t want to send them away fasting or else they may be overcome by weakness on their journey home.”" 
Matthew15:33 The disciples said to him, “Where in the world are we going to find enough food in this desolate place to feed this crowd?”" 
Matthew15:34 “How many barley loaves do you have?” Jesus asked. “Seven,” they replied, “and a few small fish.”" 
Matthew15:35 So he gave the order, “Have the people sit down on the grass.”" 
Matthew15:36 Then he took the seven loaves and the fish and gave thanks to God. He broke the bread and gave it to his disciples, who then distributed the food to the crowds." 
Matthew15:37 When everyone was full and satisfied, they gathered up the leftovers. And from what was once seven loaves and a few fish, they filled seven baskets!" 
Matthew15:38 There were four thousand men who ate the food Jesus multiplied, and even more including the women and children!" 
Matthew15:39 After dismissing the crowd, Jesus got into the boat and crossed over to the region of Magdala." 
Matthew16:1 One day some of the Pharisees and those of the Jewish sect known as the Sadducees approached Jesus, insisting that he prove to them that he was the Messiah. “Show us a supernatural sign from heaven,” they demanded." 
Matthew16:2 Jesus answered, “You can read the signs of the weather, for you say, ‘Red sky at night, sailors delight.’" 
Matthew16:3 And, ‘Red sky in the morning, sailors take warning.’ You’re so adept at forecasting the weather by looking at the sky, but you’re absolutely clueless in reading the obvious signs of the times." 
Matthew16:4 A wicked and wayward generation always asks for signs, but the only sign I provide for you will be the sign of Jonah the prophet.” Then he turned away and left them." 
Matthew16:5 Later, as Jesus and his disciples crossed over to the other side of Lake Galilee, the disciples realized they had forgotten to bring any loaves of bread." 
Matthew16:6 Jesus spoke up and said, “Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.”" 
Matthew16:7 Thinking Jesus was scolding them over not bringing bread, they began to discuss it among themselves." 
Matthew16:8 Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them, “You have such little faith! Why are you arguing with one another about having no bread?" 
Matthew16:9 Are you so slow to understand? Have you forgotten the miracle of feeding the five thousand families and how each of you ended up with a basket full of fragments? 
Matthew16:10 And how seven loaves of bread fed four thousand families with baskets left over? 
Matthew16:11 Don’t you understand? I’m not talking about bread, but I’m warning you to avoid the yeast of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.”" 
Matthew16:12 Then finally they realized he wasn’t talking about yeast found in bread, but the error of the teachings of the Pharisees and the Sadducees." 
Matthew16:13 When Jesus came to Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples this question: “What are the people saying about me, the Son of Man? Who do they believe I am?”" 
Matthew16:14 They answered, “Some are convinced you are John the Baptizer, others say you are Elijah reincarnated, or Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:14 They answered, “Some are convinced you are John the Baptizer, others say you are Elijah reincarnated, or Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:15 “But you—who do you say that I am?” Jesus asked. 
Matthew16:16 Simon Peter spoke up and said, “You are the Anointed One, the Son of the living God!”" 
Matthew16:17 Jesus replied, “You are favored and privileged Simeon, son of Jonah! For you didn’t discover this on your own, but my Father in heaven has supernaturally revealed it to you." 
Matthew16:18 I give you the name Peter, a stone. And this rock will be the bedrock foundation on which I will build my church— my legislative assembly, and the power of death will not be able to overpower it!" 
Matthew16:19 I will give you the keys of heaven’s kingdom realm to forbid on earth that which is forbidden in heaven, and to release on earth that which is released in heaven.”" 
Matthew16:20 He then gave his disciples strict orders not to tell anyone that he was the Messiah. 
Matthew16:21 From then on Jesus began to clearly reveal to his disciples that he was destined to go to Jerusalem and suffer injustice from the elders, leading priests, and religious scholars. He also explained that he would be killed and three days later be raised to life again." 
Matthew16:22 Peter took him aside to correct him privately. He reprimanded Jesus over and over, saying to him, “God forbid, Master! Spare yourself. You must never let this happen to you!”" 
Matthew16:23 Jesus turned to Peter and said, “Get out of my way, you Satan! You are a hindrance to me, because your thoughts are only filled with man’s viewpoints and not with the ways of God.”" 
Matthew16:24 Then Jesus said to his disciples, “If you truly want to follow me, you should at once completely reject and disown your own life. And you must be willing to share my cross and experience it as your own, as you continually surrender to my ways." 
Matthew16:25 For if you choose self-sacrifice and lose your lives for my glory, you will continually discover true life. But if you choose to keep your lives for yourselves, you will forfeit what you try to keep." 
Matthew16:26 For even if you were to gain all the wealth and power of this world—at the cost of your own life—what good would that be? And what could be more valuable to you than your own soul? 
Matthew16:27 I, the Son of Man, will one day return with my messengers and in the splendor and majesty of my Father. And then I will reward each person according to what they have done." 
Matthew16:28 But I promise you, there are some standing here now who won’t experience death until they have witnessed the coming of the Son of Man in the presence and the power of the kingdom realm of God!”" 
Matthew17:1 Six days later Jesus took Peter and the two brothers, Jacob and John, and hiked up a high mountain to be alone." 
Matthew17:1 Six days later Jesus took Peter and the two brothers, Jacob and John, and hiked up a high mountain to be alone." 
Matthew17:2 Then Jesus’ appearance was dramatically altered. A radiant light as bright as the sun poured from his face. And his clothing became luminescent—dazzling like lightning. He was transfigured before their very eyes. 
Matthew17:3 Then suddenly, Moses and Elijah appeared, and they spoke with Jesus." 
Matthew17:4 Peter blurted out, “Lord, it’s so wonderful that we are all here together! If you want, I’ll construct three shrines, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”" 
Matthew17:5 But while Peter was still speaking, a bright radiant cloud spread over them, enveloping them all. And God’s voice suddenly spoke from the cloud, saying, “This is my dearly loved Son, the constant focus of my delight. Listen to him!”" 
Matthew17:6 The three disciples were dazed and terrified by this phenomenon, and they fell facedown to the ground." 
Matthew17:7 But Jesus walked over and touched them, saying, “Get up and stop being afraid.”" 
Matthew17:8 When they finally opened their eyes and looked around, they saw no one else there but Jesus." 
Matthew17:9 As they all hiked down the mountain together, Jesus ordered them, “Don’t tell anyone of the divine appearance you just witnessed. Wait until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.”" 
Matthew17:10 His disciples asked him, “Why do all the religious scholars insist that Elijah must first appear before the Anointed One comes?”" 
Matthew17:11 He answered them, “They’re right. Elijah must come first and restore all things." 
Matthew17:12 But Elijah has already appeared. And yet they didn’t recognize him, so they did to him whatever they pleased. And the Son of Man is destined to suffer the same abuse as what they did to him.”" 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples realized that Jesus was referring to John the Baptizer all along. 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples realized that Jesus was referring to John the Baptizer all along. 
Matthew17:14 They came to where a large crowd had gathered to wait for Jesus. A man came and knelt before him 
Matthew17:15 and said, “Lord, please show your tender mercy toward my son. He has a demon who afflicts him. He has epilepsy, and he suffers horribly from seizures. He often falls into the cooking fire or into the river." 
Matthew17:16 I brought him to your followers, but they weren’t able to heal him.”" 
Matthew17:17 Jesus replied, “Where is your faith? Can’t you see how wayward and wrong this generation is? How much longer do I stay with you and put up with your doubts? Bring your son to me.”" 
Matthew17:18 Then Jesus rebuked the demon and it came out of him and the boy was instantly healed! 
Matthew17:19 Later the disciples came to him privately and asked, “Why couldn’t we cast out the demon?”" 
Matthew17:20 He told them, “It was because of your lack of faith. I promise you, if you have faith inside of you no bigger than the size of a small mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, ‘Move away from here and go over there,’ and you will see it move! There is nothing you couldn’t do!" 
Matthew17:21 But this kind is cast out only through prayer and fasting.” 
Matthew17:22 When they all gathered together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is going to be betrayed and turned over to his enemies." 
Matthew17:23 They will kill him and in three days he will be resurrected.” When the disciples heard these words they were devastated. 
Matthew17:24 After they arrived in Capernaum, the collectors of the temple tax approached Peter and asked, “Does your teacher pay the tax for the upkeep of the temple, like the rest of us?”" 
Matthew17:25 “Of course he does,” Peter answered. When Peter walked into the house, and before he had a chance to speak, Jesus spoke up and said, “Peter, I have a question for you. Who pays tolls or taxes to a king? Is tax collected from the king’s own children, or from his subjects?”" 
Matthew17:26 “From his subjects,” Peter answered. Jesus replied, “That’s right. The children get off free without paying taxes." 
Matthew17:27 But so that we don’t offend them, go to the lake and throw out your hook, and the first fish that rises up will have a coin in its mouth. It will be the exact amount you need to pay the temple tax for both of us.”" 
Matthew18:1 At that time the disciples came to ask Jesus, “Who is considered to be the greatest in heaven’s kingdom realm?”" 
Matthew18:2 Jesus called a little one to his side and said to them," 
Matthew18:3 “Learn this well: Unless you dramatically change your way of thinking and become teachable like a little child, you will never be able to enter in." 
Matthew18:4 Whoever continually humbles himself to become like this little child is the greatest one in heaven’s kingdom realm. 
Matthew18:5 And if you tenderly care for this little one on my behalf, you are tenderly caring for me." 
Matthew18:6 But if anyone abuses one of these little ones who believes in me, it would be better for him to have a heavy boulder tied around his neck and be hurled into the deepest sea than to face the punishment he deserves!" 
Matthew18:7 “Misery will come to the one who lures people away into sin. Troubles and obstacles to your faith are inevitable, but great devastation will come to the one guilty of causing others to stumble!" 
Matthew18:8 If your hand clings to sin, cut it off and throw it away. If your foot continually steps onto sin’s path, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better for you to enter into heaven crippled and maimed than to have both hands and both feet and be thrown into the eternal fire." 
Matthew18:9 And if your eye is always focusing on sin, pluck it out and throw it away. For it is better for you to enter into heaven with one eye than to be thrown into hell fire with two." 
Matthew18:10 “Be careful that you not corrupt one of these little ones. For I can assure you that in heaven each of their guardian angels always sees the face of my heavenly Father.” 
Matthew18:11 “The Son of Man has come to give life to all who are lost. 
Matthew18:12 Think of it this way: If a man owns a hundred sheep and one lamb wanders away and is lost, won’t he leave the ninety-nine grazing the hillside and thoroughly search for the one lost lamb?" 
Matthew18:13 And if he finds his lost lamb, he rejoices over it, more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray." 
Matthew18:14 Now you should understand that it is never the desire of your heavenly Father that a single one of these little ones should be lost.” 
Matthew18:15 “If your fellow believer sins against you, you must go to that one privately and attempt to resolve the matter. If he responds, your relationship is restored." 
Matthew18:16 But if his heart is closed to you, then go to him again, taking one or two others with you. You’ll be fulfilling what the Scripture teaches when it says, ‘Every word may be verified by the testimony of two or three witnesses.’" 
Matthew18:17 And if he refuses to listen, then share the issue with the congregation in hopes of restoration. If he still refuses to respond, even to the church, then you must disregard him as though he were an outsider, on the same level as an unrepentant sinner." 
Matthew18:18 “Receive this truth: Whatever you forbid on earth will be considered to be forbidden in heaven, and whatever you release on earth will be considered to be released in heaven." 
Matthew18:19 Again, I give you an eternal truth: If two of you agree to ask God for something in a symphony of prayer, my heavenly Father will do it for you." 
Matthew18:20 For wherever two or three come together in honor of my name, I am right there with them!”" 
Matthew18:21 Later Peter approached Jesus and said, “How many times do I have to forgive my fellow believer who keeps offending me? Seven times?”" 
Matthew18:22 Jesus answered, “Not seven times, Peter, but seventy times seven times!" 
Matthew18:23 The lessons of forgiveness in heaven’s kingdom realm can be illustrated like this: “There once was a king who had servants who had borrowed money from the royal treasury. He decided to settle accounts with each of them. 
Matthew18:24 As he began the process, it came to his attention that one of his servants owed him one billion dollars. So he summoned the servant before him and said to him, ‘Pay me what you owe me.’" 
Matthew18:25 When his servant was unable to repay his debt, the king ordered that he be sold as a slave along with his wife and children and every possession they owned as payment toward his debt." 
Matthew18:26 The servant threw himself facedown at his master’s feet and begged for mercy. ‘Please be patient with me. Just give me more time and I will repay you all that I owe.’ 
Matthew18:27 Upon hearing his pleas, the king had compassion on his servant, and released him, and forgave his entire debt." 
Matthew18:28 “No sooner had the servant left when he met one of his fellow servants, who owed him twenty thousand dollars He seized him by the throat and began to choke him, saying, ‘You’d better pay me right now everything you owe me!’" 
Matthew18:29 His fellow servant threw himself facedown at his feet and begged, ‘Please be patient with me. If you’ll just give me time, I will repay you all that is owed.’" 
Matthew18:30 But the one who had his debt forgiven stubbornly refused to forgive what was owed him. He had his fellow servant thrown into prison and demanded he remain there until he repaid the debt in full. 
Matthew18:31 “When his associates saw what was going on, they were outraged and went to the king and told him the whole story." 
Matthew18:32 The king said to him, ‘You scoundrel! Is this the way you respond to my mercy? Because you begged me, I forgave you the massive debt that you owed me." 
Matthew18:33 Why didn’t you show the same mercy to your fellow servant that I showed to you?’ 
Matthew18:34 In a fury of anger, the king turned him over to the prison guards to be tortured until all his debt was repaid." 
Matthew18:35 In this same way, my heavenly Father will deal with any of you if you do not release forgiveness from your heart toward your fellow believer.”" 
Matthew19:1 After Jesus finished teaching them, he left Galilee and made his way toward the district of Judea, east of the Jordan River." 
Matthew19:1 After Jesus finished teaching them, he left Galilee and made his way toward the district of Judea, east of the Jordan River." 
Matthew19:2 Massive crowds followed him and he healed all who were sick. 
Matthew19:3 The Pharisees were intent on putting Jesus to the test with difficult questions, so they approached him and asked, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?”" 
Matthew19:4 “Haven’t you read the Scriptures about creation?” Jesus replied. “The Creator made us male and female from the very beginning," 
Matthew19:5 and ‘For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and live with his wife. And the two will become one flesh.’ 
Matthew19:6 From then on, they are no longer two, but united as one. So what God unites let no one divide!”" 
Matthew19:7 They responded, “So then why did Moses command us to give a certificate of divorce and it would be lawful?”" 
Matthew19:8 Jesus said, “Moses permitted you to divorce because your hearts are so hard and stubborn, but originally there was no such thing." 
Matthew19:9 But I say to you, whoever leaves his wife for any reason other than immorality, then takes another wife is living in adultery. And whoever takes a divorced woman in marriage is also living in adultery.”" 
Matthew19:10 His disciples spoke up and said, “If this is the standard, then it seems better to never get married.”" 
Matthew19:11 “Not everyone is meant to remain single—only those whom God gives grace to be unmarried. 
Matthew19:12 For some are born to celibacy; others have been made eunuchs by others. And there are some who have chosen to live in celibacy for the sacred purpose of heaven’s kingdom realm. Let those who can, accept this truth for themselves.”" 
Matthew19:13 Then they brought little children to Jesus so that he would lay his hands on them, bless them, and pray for them. But the disciples scolded those who brought the children, saying, “Don’t bother him with this now!”" 
Matthew19:14 Jesus overheard them and said, “I want little children to come to me, so never interfere with them when they want to come, for heaven’s kingdom realm is composed of beloved ones like these! Listen to this truth: No one will enter the kingdom realm of heaven unless he becomes like one of these!”" 
Matthew19:15 Then he laid his hands on each of them and went on his way. 
Matthew19:16 Then a young man approached Jesus and bowed before him, saying, “Wonderful teacher —is there a good work I have to do to obtain eternal life?”" 
Matthew19:17 Jesus answered, “Why would you call me wonderful? God alone is wonderful. And why would you ask what good work you need to do? Keep the commandments and you’ll enter into the life of God.”" 
Matthew19:18 “Which ones?” he asked. Jesus said, “Don’t murder, don’t commit adultery, don’t steal, don’t lie," 
Matthew19:19 honor your father and mother, and love those around you as you love yourself.”" 
Matthew19:20 “But I’ve always obeyed every one of them without fail,” the young man replied. “What else do I lack?”" 
Matthew19:21 Jesus said to him, “If you really want to be perfect, go now and sell everything you own. Give your money to the poor and your treasure will be transferred into heaven. Then come back and follow me for the rest of your life.”" 
Matthew19:22 When the young man heard these words, he walked away sad, for he had great wealth." 
Matthew19:23 Then Jesus turned to his disciples and said, “Listen. Do you understand how difficult it is for the rich to enter into heaven’s kingdom realm?" 
Matthew19:24 In fact, it’s easier to stuff a heavy rope through the eye of a needle than it is for the wealthy to enter into God’s kingdom realm!”" 
Matthew19:25 Stunned and bewildered, his disciples asked, “Then who in the world can possibly be saved?”" 
Matthew19:26 Looking into their eyes, Jesus replied, “Humanly speaking, no one, because no one can save himself. But what seems impossible to you is never impossible to God!”" 
Matthew19:27 Then Peter blurted out, “Here we are. We’ve given up everything to follow you. What reward will there be for us?”" 
Matthew19:28 Jesus responded, “Listen to the truth: In the age of the restoration of all things, when the Son of Man sits on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will have twelve thrones of your own, and you will govern the twelve tribes of Israel." 
Matthew19:29 For anyone who has left behind their home and property, leaving family—brothers or sisters, mothers or fathers, or children—for my sake, they will be repaid a hundred times over and will inherit eternal life." 
Matthew19:30 But many who push themselves to be first will find themselves last. And those who are willing to be last will find themselves to be first.” 
Matthew20:1 “This will help you understand the way heaven’s kingdom operates: “There once was a wealthy landowner who went out at daybreak to hire all the laborers he could find to work in his vineyard. 
Matthew20:2 After agreeing to pay them the standard day’s wage, he put them to work." 
Matthew20:3 Then at nine o’clock, as he was passing through the town square, he found others standing around without work." 
Matthew20:4 He told them, ‘Come and work for me in my vineyard and I’ll pay you a fair wage.’" 
Matthew20:5 So off they went to join the others. He did the same thing at noon and again at three o’clock, making the same arrangement as he did with the others." 
Matthew20:6 “Hoping to finish his harvest that day, he went to the town square again at five o’clock and found more who were idle. So he said to them, ‘Why have you been here all day without work?’" 
Matthew20:7 “ ‘Because no one hired us,’ they answered. “So he said to them, ‘Then go and join my crew and work in my vineyard.’" 
Matthew20:8 “When evening came, the owner of the vineyard went to his foreman and said, ‘Call in all the laborers, line them up, and pay them the same wages, starting with the most recent ones I hired and finishing with the ones who worked all day.’" 
Matthew20:9 “When those hired late in the day came to be paid, they were given a full day’s wage." 
Matthew20:10 And when those who had been hired first came to be paid, they were convinced that they would receive more. But everyone was paid the standard wage." 
Matthew20:11 When they realized what had happened, they were offended and complained to the landowner, saying," 
Matthew20:12 ‘You’re treating us unfairly! They’ve only worked for one hour while we’ve labored and sweated all day under the scorching sun. You’ve made them equal to us!’ 
Matthew20:13 “The landowner replied, ‘Friends, I’m not being unfair—I’m doing exactly what I said. Didn’t you agree to work for the standard wage?" 
Matthew20:14 If I want to give those who only worked for an hour equal pay, what does that matter to you?" 
Matthew20:15 Don’t I have the right to do what I want with what is mine? Why should my generosity make you jealous of them?’ 
Matthew20:16 “ Now you can understand what I meant when I said that the first will end up last and the last will end up being first. Everyone is invited, but few are the chosen.”" 
Matthew20:17 Jesus was about to go to Jerusalem, so he took his twelve disciples aside privately and said to them," 
Matthew20:18 “Listen to me. We’re on our way to Jerusalem, and I need to remind you that the Son of Man will be handed over to the religious leaders and scholars, and they will sentence him to be executed." 
Matthew20:19 And they will hand him over to the Romans to be mocked, tortured, and crucified. Yet three days later he will be raised to life again.”" 
Matthew20:19 And they will hand him over to the Romans to be mocked, tortured, and crucified. Yet three days later he will be raised to life again.”" 
Matthew20:20 The wife of Zebedee approached Jesus with her sons, Jacob and John. She knelt before him and asked him for a favor." 
Matthew20:20 The wife of Zebedee approached Jesus with her sons, Jacob and John. She knelt before him and asked him for a favor." 
Matthew20:21 He said to her, “What is it that you want?” She answered, “Make the decree that these, my sons, will rule with you in your kingdom—one sitting on your right hand, one on your left.”" 
Matthew20:22 Jesus replied, “You don’t know what you are asking.” Then, looking in the eyes of Jacob and John, Jesus said, “Are you prepared to drink from the cup of suffering that I am about to drink? And are you able to endure the baptism into death that I am about to endure?” They answered him, “Yes, we are able.”" 
Matthew20:22 Jesus replied, “You don’t know what you are asking.” Then, looking in the eyes of Jacob and John, Jesus said, “Are you prepared to drink from the cup of suffering that I am about to drink? And are you able to endure the baptism into death that I am about to endure?” They answered him, “Yes, we are able.”" 
Matthew20:23 “You will indeed drink the cup of my suffering and be immersed into my death,” Jesus told them. “But to be the ones who sit at the place of highest honor is not mine to decide. My Father is the one who chooses them and prepares them.”" 
Matthew20:24 The other ten disciples were listening to all of this, and a jealous anger arose among them against the two brothers." 
Matthew20:25 Jesus, knowing their thoughts, called them to his side and said, “Kings and those with great authority in this world rule oppressively over their subjects, like tyrants." 
Matthew20:26 But this is not your calling. You will lead by a completely different model. The greatest one among you will live as the one who is called to serve others," 
Matthew20:27 because the greatest honor and authority is reserved for the one with the heart of a servant. 
Matthew20:28 For even the Son of Man did not come expecting to be served but to serve and give his life in exchange for the salvation of many.” 
Matthew20:29 As Jesus left Jericho a huge crowd gathered and followed him. 
Matthew20:30 And there were two blind men sitting on the roadside. When they heard that it was Jesus passing by, they shouted, “Son of David, show us mercy, Lord!”" 
Matthew20:31 Those in the crowd scolded them and told them to be quiet. But the blind men shouted even louder, “Jesus, Son of David, show us mercy, Lord!”" 
Matthew20:32 So Jesus stopped and had them brought to him. He asked them, “What do you want me to do for you?”" 
Matthew20:33 They said, “Lord, we want to see! Heal us!”" 
Matthew20:34 Jesus was deeply moved with compassion toward them. So he touched their eyes, and instantly they could see! Jesus said to them, “Your faith has healed you.” And all the people praised God because of this miracle. And the two men became his followers from that day onward." 
Matthew21:1 Now, as they were approaching Jerusalem they arrived at the place of the stables near the Mount of Olives. Jesus sent two of his disciples ahead, saying," 
Matthew21:2 “As soon as you enter the village, you will find a donkey tethered along with her young colt. Untie them both and bring them to me." 
Matthew21:3 And if anyone stops you and asks, ‘What are you doing?’ just tell them, ‘The Lord of All needs them,’ and he will let you take them.”" 
Matthew21:4 All of this happened to fulfill the prophecy: 
Matthew21:5 Tell Zion’s daughter: “Look, your King arrives! He’s coming to you humbly, sitting on a donkey, riding on a donkey’s colt.”" 
Matthew21:6 So the two disciples went on ahead and did as Jesus had instructed them. 
Matthew21:7 They brought the donkey and her colt to him and placed their cloaks and prayer shawls on the colt, and Jesus rode on it." 
Matthew21:8 Then an exceptionally large crowd gathered and carpeted the road before him with their cloaks and prayer shawls. Others cut down branches from trees to spread in his path. 
Matthew21:9 Jesus rode in the center of the procession—crowds going before him and crowds coming behind him, and they all shouted, “Bring the victory, Lord, Son of David! He is the blessed one sent from the Lord Yahweh! We celebrate with praises to God in the highest!”" 
Matthew21:10 As Jesus entered Jerusalem, the people went wild with excitement—the entire city was thrown into an uproar!" 
Matthew21:11 Some asked, “Who is this man?” And the crowds shouted back, “This is Jesus! He’s the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee!”" 
Matthew21:12 Upon entering Jerusalem Jesus went directly into the temple area and drove away all the merchants who were buying and selling their goods. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the stands of those selling doves. 
Matthew21:13 And he said to them, “My dwelling place will be known as a house of prayer, but you have made it into a hangout for thieves!”" 
Matthew21:14 Then the blind and the crippled came into the temple courts, and Jesus healed them all. And the children circled around him shouting out, “Blessings and praises to the Son of David!”" 
Matthew21:15 But when the chief priests and religious scholars heard the children shouting and saw all the wonderful miracles of healing, they were furious." 
Matthew21:16 They said to Jesus, “Don’t you hear what these children are saying? This is not right!” Jesus answered, “Yes, I hear them. But have you never read the Scripture, ‘From the lips of children and infants you have ordained praise’?”" 
Matthew21:17 Jesus then left at once for the nearby village of Bethany, where he spent the night." 
Matthew21:18 While walking back into the city the next morning, he got hungry." 
Matthew21:19 He noticed a lone fig tree by the side of the path and walked over to see if there was any fruit on it, but there was none—he found only leaves. So he spoke to the fig tree and said, “You will be barren and will never bear fruit again!” Instantly the fig tree shriveled up right in front of their eyes!" 
Matthew21:20 Astonished, his disciples asked, “How did you make this fig tree instantly wither and die?”" 
Matthew21:21 Jesus replied, “Listen to the truth. If you do not doubt God’s power and speak out of faith’s fullness, you can also speak to a tree and it will wither away. Even more than that, you could say to this mountain, ‘Be lifted up and be thrown into the sea’ and it will be done." 
Matthew21:22 Everything you pray for with the fullness of faith you will receive!” 
Matthew21:23 After this Jesus went into the temple courts and taught the people. The leading priests and Jewish elders approached him and interrupted him and asked, “By what power do you do these things, and who granted you the authority to teach here?”" 
Matthew21:24 Jesus answered them, “I too have a question to ask you. If you can answer this question, then I will tell you by what power I do these things." 
Matthew21:25 Where did John’s authority to baptize come from? From heaven or from people?” 
Matthew21:25 Where did John’s authority to baptize come from? From heaven or from people?” 
Matthew21:26 They stepped away and debated among themselves, saying, “How should we answer this? If we say from heaven, he will say to us, ‘Then why didn’t you respond to John and believe what he said?’ But if we deny that God gave John his authority, we’ll be mobbed by the people, for they’re convinced that John was God’s prophet.”" 
Matthew21:26 They stepped away and debated among themselves, saying, “How should we answer this? If we say from heaven, he will say to us, ‘Then why didn’t you respond to John and believe what he said?’ But if we deny that God gave John his authority, we’ll be mobbed by the people, for they’re convinced that John was God’s prophet.”" 
Matthew21:27 So they finally answered, “We don’t know.” “Then neither will I tell you from where my power comes to do these things!” he replied." 
Matthew21:28 Jesus said to his critics, “Tell me what you think of this parable: “There once was a man with two sons. The father came to the first and said, ‘Son, I want you to go and work in the vineyard today.’" 
Matthew21:29 The son replied, ‘I’d rather not.’ But afterward, he deeply regretted what he said to his father, changed his mind, and decided to go to the vineyard." 
Matthew21:30 The father approached the second son and said the same thing to him. The son replied, ‘Father, I will go and do as you said.’ But he never did—he didn’t go to the vineyard." 
Matthew21:31 Tell me now, which of these two sons did the will of his father?” They answered him, “The first one.” Jesus said, “You’re right. For many sinners, tax collectors, and prostitutes are going into God’s kingdom realm ahead of you!" 
Matthew21:32 John came to show you the path of righteousness, yet the despised and outcasts believed in him, but you did not. When you saw them turn, you neither repented of your ways nor believed his words.”" 
Matthew21:32 John came to show you the path of righteousness, yet the despised and outcasts believed in him, but you did not. When you saw them turn, you neither repented of your ways nor believed his words.”" 
Matthew21:33 “Pay close attention to this parable,” Jesus said. “There once was an honorable man who planted a vineyard. He built a fence around it, dug out a pit for pressing the grapes, and erected a watchtower. Afterward he leased the land to tenant farmers and then went a distance away." 
Matthew21:34 At harvest time he sent his servants to the tenants to collect the portion that was due him as the lord of the vineyard. 
Matthew21:35 But the tenants seized his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another." 
Matthew21:36 So the landowner sent other servants, even more than at first, but they were mistreated the same way." 
Matthew21:37 Finally, he sent his own son to them, and he said to himself, ‘Perhaps with my own son standing before them they will be ashamed of what they’ve done.’" 
Matthew21:38 But when the tenants saw the son, they said, ‘This is the heir! Let’s kill him and then we can have his inheritance!’" 
Matthew21:39 So they seized him, took him outside the vineyard, and murdered him." 
Matthew21:40 “You tell me, when the lord of the vineyard comes, what do you think he will do to those tenants?”" 
Matthew21:41 They answered, “He will bring a horrible death to those who did this evil and he will completely destroy them. Then he’ll lease his vineyard to different tenants who will be faithful to give him the portion he deserves.”" 
Matthew21:42 Jesus said to them, “Haven’t you ever read the Scripture that says: The very stone the builder rejected as flawed has now become the most important cornerstone. This was the Lord’s plan — isn’t it marvelous to behold?" 
Matthew21:43 “This is why I say to you that the kingdom realm of God will be taken from you and given to a people who will bear its fruit. 
Matthew21:44 The one who comes against this stone will be broken, but the one on whom it falls will be pulverized!”" 
Matthew21:45 When the leading priests and the Pharisees realized that the parable was referring to them, they were" 
Matthew21:46 outraged and wanted to arrest him at once. But they were afraid of the reaction of the crowds, because the people considered him to be a prophet." 
Matthew22:1 As was his custom, Jesus continued to teach the people by using allegories." 
Matthew22:2 He illustrated the reality of heaven’s kingdom realm by saying, “There once was a king who arranged an extravagant wedding feast for his son." 
Matthew22:3 On the day the festivities were set to begin, he sent his servants to summon all the invited guests, but they chose not to come." 
Matthew22:4 So the king sent even more servants to inform the invited guests, saying, ‘Come, for the sumptuous feast is now ready! The oxen and fattened cattle have been killed and everything is prepared, so come! Come to the wedding feast for my son and his bride!’" 
Matthew22:5 “But the invited guests were not impressed. One was preoccupied with his business; another went off to his farming enterprise. 
Matthew22:6 And the rest seized the king’s messengers and shamefully mistreated them, and even killed them." 
Matthew22:7 This infuriated the king! So he sent his soldiers to execute those murderers and had their city burned to the ground. 
Matthew22:8 “Then the king said to his servants, ‘The wedding feast is ready, yet those who had been invited to attend didn’t deserve the honor." 
Matthew22:9 Now I want you to go into the streets and alleyways and invite anyone and everyone you find to come and enjoy the wedding feast in honor of my son.’ 
Matthew22:10 “So the servants went out into the city streets and invited everyone to come to the wedding feast, good and bad alike, until the banquet hall was crammed with people!" 
Matthew22:11 Now, when the king entered the banquet hall, he looked with glee over all his guests. But then he noticed a guest who was not wearing the wedding robe provided for him." 
Matthew22:12 So he said, ‘My friend, how is it that you’re here and you’re not wearing your wedding garment?’ But the man was speechless." 
Matthew22:13 “Then the king turned to his servants and said, ‘Tie him up and throw him into the outer darkness, where there will be great sorrow, with weeping and grinding of teeth.’" 
Matthew22:14 For everyone is invited to enter in, but few respond in excellence.”" 
Matthew22:15 Then the Pharisees came together to make a plan to entrap Jesus with his own words. 
Matthew22:16 So they sent some of their disciples together with some staunch supporters of Herod. They said to Jesus, “Teacher, we know that you’re an honest man of integrity and you teach us the truth of God’s ways. We can clearly see that you’re not one who speaks only to win the people’s favor, because you speak the truth without regard to the consequences." 
Matthew22:17 So tell us, then, what you think. Is it proper for us Jews to pay taxes to Caesar or not?”" 
Matthew22:18 Jesus knew the malice that was hidden behind their cunning ploy and said, “Why are you testing me, you imposters who think you have all the answers?" 
Matthew22:19 Show me one of the Roman coins.” So they brought him a silver coin used to pay the tax. 
Matthew22:20 “Now, tell me, whose head is on this coin and whose inscription is stamped on it?”" 
Matthew22:21 “Caesar’s,” they replied. Jesus said, “Precisely, for the coin bears the image of the emperor Caesar. Well, then, you should pay the emperor what is due to the emperor. But because you bear the image of God, give back to God all that belongs to him.”" 
Matthew22:22 The imposters were baffled in the presence of all the people. When they realized once again that they were unable to trap Jesus, they went away stunned." 
Matthew22:23 Some of the Sadducees, a religious group that denied there was a resurrection of the dead, came to ask Jesus this question:" 
Matthew22:24 “Teacher, the law of Moses teaches that if a man dies before he has children, his brother should marry the widow and raise up children for his brother’s family line." 
Matthew22:25 Now, there was a family with seven brothers. The oldest got married but soon died, leaving his widow for his brother." 
Matthew22:26 The second brother married and also died, and the third also. This was repeated down to the seventh brother," 
Matthew22:27 when finally the woman also died. So here’s our dilemma: 
Matthew22:28 Which of the seven brothers will be the woman’s husband when she’s resurrected from the dead, since they all were once married to her?”" 
Matthew22:29 Jesus answered them, “You are deluded, because your hearts are not filled with the revelation of the Scriptures or the power of God." 
Matthew22:30 For after the resurrection, men and women will not marry, just like the angels of heaven don’t marry." 
Matthew22:31 Haven’t you read what God said: 
Matthew22:32 ‘I am the Living God, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.”" 
Matthew22:33 When the crowds heard this they were dazed and astonished over his teaching! 
Matthew22:34 When the Pharisees heard that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, they called a meeting to discuss how to trap Jesus." 
Matthew22:35 Then one of them, a religious scholar, posed this question to test him:" 
Matthew22:36 “Teacher, which commandment in the law is the greatest?”" 
Matthew22:37 Jesus answered him, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with every passion of your heart, with all the energy of your being, and with every thought that is within you.’" 
Matthew22:38 This is the great and supreme commandment. 
Matthew22:39 And the second is like it in importance: ‘You must love your friend in the same way you love yourself.’ 
Matthew22:40 Contained within these commandments to love you will find all the meaning of the Law and the Prophets.” 
Matthew22:41 While all the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus took the opportunity to pose a question of his own:" 
Matthew22:42 “What do you think about the Anointed One? Whose son is he?” “The son of David,” they replied." 
Matthew22:43 Then Jesus said to them, “How is it that David, inspired by the Holy Spirit, could call his son the Lord? For didn’t he say:" 
Matthew22:44 The Lord said to my Lord, ‘Sit beside me in the place of authority until I subdue all your enemies under your feet’?" 
Matthew22:45 “So how could David call his own son ‘the Lord’?” 
Matthew22:46 No one could come up with an answer. And from that day on none of the Pharisees had the courage to question Jesus any longer. 
Matthew23:1 Then Jesus addressed both the crowds and his disciples and said," 
Matthew23:2 “The religious scholars and the Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat as the authorized interpreters of the Law. 
Matthew23:3 So listen and follow what they teach, but don’t do what they do, for they tell you one thing and do another." 
Matthew23:4 They tie on your backs an oppressive burden of religious obligations and insist that you carry them, but will never lift a finger to help ease your load." 
Matthew23:5 Everything they do is done for show and to be noticed by others. They want to be seen as holy, so they wear oversized prayer boxes on their arms and foreheads with Scriptures inside, and wear extra-long tassels on their outer garments." 
Matthew23:6 They crave the seats of highest honor at banquets and in their meeting places. 
Matthew23:7 And how they love to be admired by men with their titles of respect, aspiring to be recognized in public and have others call them ‘Reverend.’" 
Matthew23:8 “But you are to be different from that. You are not to be called ‘master,’ for you have only one Master, and you are all brothers and sisters." 
Matthew23:9 And you are not to be addressed as ‘father,’ for you have one Father, who is in heaven." 
Matthew23:10 Nor are you to be addressed as ‘teacher,’ for you have one Teacher, the Anointed One." 
Matthew23:11 The greatest among you will be the one who always serves others. 
Matthew23:12 Remember this: If you have a lofty opinion of yourself and seek to be honored, you will be humbled. But if you have a modest opinion of yourself and choose to humble yourself, you will be honored.”" 
Matthew23:13 “Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and you Pharisees—such frauds and pretenders! You do all you can to keep people from experiencing the reality of heaven’s kingdom realm. Not only do you refuse to enter in, you also forbid anyone else from entering in!" 
Matthew23:14 “ Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and you Pharisees—frauds and pretenders! For you eat up the widow’s household with the ladle of your prayers. Because of this, you will receive a greater judgment." 
Matthew23:15 “Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and you Pharisees—such frauds and pretenders! For you will travel over land and sea to find one disciple, only to make him twice the child of hell as yourselves." 
Matthew23:16 “You blind guides! Great sorrow awaits you, for you teach that there’s nothing binding when you swear by God’s temple, but if you swear by the gold of the temple, you are bound by your oath." 
Matthew23:17 You are deceived and blind! Which is greater, the gold or the temple that makes the gold sacred?" 
Matthew23:18 And you say that whoever takes an oath by swearing, ‘By the altar,’ it is nothing. But if you swear, ‘By the gift upon the altar,’ then you are obligated to keep your oath." 
Matthew23:19 What deception! For what is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?" 
Matthew23:20 Whoever swears by the altar swears by the altar and everything offered on it. 
Matthew23:21 And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and the one who dwells in it. 
Matthew23:22 And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by God, who sits upon it." 
Matthew23:23 “Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and Pharisees—frauds and pretenders! For you are obsessed with peripheral issues, like insisting on paying meticulous tithes on the smallest herbs that grow in your gardens. These matters are fine, yet you ignore the most important duties of all: to walk in the love of God, to display mercy to others, and to live with integrity. Readjust your values and place first things first." 
Matthew23:24 What blind guides! Nitpickers! You will spoon out a gnat from your drink, yet at the same time you’ve gulped down a camel without realizing it!" 
Matthew23:25 “Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and Pharisees—frauds and imposters! You are like one who will only wipe clean the outside of a cup or bowl, leaving the inside filthy. You are foolish to ignore the greed and self-indulgence that live like germs within you." 
Matthew23:26 You are blind to your evil. Shouldn’t the one who cleans the outside also be concerned with cleaning the inside? You need to have more than clean dishes; you need clean hearts! 
Matthew23:27 “Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and Pharisees—frauds and imposters! You are nothing more than tombs painted over with white paint—tombs that look shining and beautiful on the outside but filled with rotting corpses on the inside. 
Matthew23:28 Outwardly you masquerade as righteous people, but inside your hearts you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness." 
Matthew23:29 “Great sorrow awaits you religious scholars and Pharisees—frauds and imposters! You build memorials for the prophets your ancestors killed and decorate the monuments of the godly people your ancestors murdered. 
Matthew23:30 Then you boast, ‘If we had lived back then, we would not have joined them in killing the prophets.’" 
Matthew23:31 But your words and deeds testify that you are just like them and prove that you are indeed the descendants of those who murdered the prophets. 
Matthew23:32 Go ahead and finish what your ancestors started! 
Matthew23:33 You are nothing but snakes in the grass, the offspring of poisonous vipers! How will you escape the judgment of hell if you refuse to turn in repentance?" 
Matthew23:34 “For this reason I will send you more prophets and wise men and teachers of truth. Some you will crucify, and some you will beat mercilessly with whips in your meeting houses, abusing and persecuting them from city to city." 
Matthew23:35 As your penalty, you will be held responsible for the righteous blood spilled and the murders of every godly person throughout your history—from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Jehoiada, whom you killed as he stood in the temple between the brazen altar and the Holy Place." 
Matthew23:36 I tell you the truth: the judgment for all these things will fall upon this generation!” 
Matthew23:37 “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem—you are the city that murders your prophets! You are the city that stones the very messengers who were sent to deliver you! So many times I have longed to gather a wayward people, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings—but you were too stubborn to let me." 
Matthew23:38 And now it is too late, since your city will be left in ruins." 
Matthew23:39 For you will not see me again until you are able to say, ‘We welcome the one who comes to us in the name of the Lord.’ ”" 
Matthew24:1 As Jesus was leaving the temple courts, his disciples came to him and pointed out the beautiful architecture of the temple." 
Matthew24:2 And Jesus turned to them and said, “Take a good look at all these things, for I’m telling you, there will not be one stone left upon another. It will all be leveled!”" 
Matthew24:3 Later, when they arrived at the Mount of Olives, his disciples came privately to where he was sitting and said, “Tell us, when will these things happen? And what sign should we expect to signal your coming and the completion of this age?”" 
Matthew24:4 Jesus answered, “At that time deception will run rampant. So beware that you are not fooled!" 
Matthew24:5 For many will appear on the scene claiming my authority or saying about themselves, ‘I am the Anointed One,’ and they will lead many astray." 
Matthew24:6 “You will hear of wars and revolutions on every side, with more rumors of wars to come. Don’t panic or give in to your fears, for the breaking apart of the world’s systems is destined to happen. But it won’t yet be the end; it will still be unfolding." 
Matthew24:7 “Nations will go to war against nations and kingdoms against kingdoms. And there will be terrible earthquakes, horrible epidemics, and famines in place after place." 
Matthew24:8 This is how the birth pains of the new age will begin!” 
Matthew24:9 “You can expect to be persecuted, even killed; for you will be hated by all the nations because of your love for me." 
Matthew24:10 Then many will stop following me and fall away, and they will betray one another and hate one another." 
Matthew24:11 And many lying prophets will arise, deceiving multitudes and leading them away from the path of truth." 
Matthew24:12 There will be such an increase of the sin of lawlessness that those whose hearts once burned with passion for God and others will grow cold. 
Matthew24:13 But hold your hope firmly to the end and you will experience life and deliverance. 
Matthew24:14 “Yet through it all, the good news of heaven’s kingdom will be proclaimed all over the world, providing every nation with a demonstration of the reality of God. And after that the end of this age will arrive.”" 
Matthew24:15 “When you witness what Daniel prophesied, ‘the disgusting destroyer,’ taking its stand in the Holy Place [let the reader learn]," 
Matthew24:16 then those in the land of Judah must escape to the higher ground. 
Matthew24:17 On that day, if you happen to be outside, don’t go back inside to gather belongings." 
Matthew24:18 And if you’re working out in the field, don’t run back home to get a coat." 
Matthew24:19 It will be especially hard for pregnant women and for those nursing their babies in those days. 
Matthew24:20 So pray that your escape will not be during the winter months or on a Sabbath. 
Matthew24:21 For this will be a time of great misery beyond the magnitude of anything the world has ever seen or ever will see. Unless God limited those days, no one would escape." 
Matthew24:22 But because of his love for those chosen to be his, he will shorten that time of trouble." 
Matthew24:23 “And you will hear reports from some, saying, ‘Look, he has returned,’ ‘The Messiah is over here,’ or ‘The Messiah is over there!’ Don’t believe it." 
Matthew24:24 For there will be imposters falsely claiming to be God’s ‘Anointed One,’ and false prophets will arise to perform miracle signs to lead astray, if possible, those God has chosen to be his." 
Matthew24:25 Remember this, for I prophesy it will happen!" 
Matthew24:26 So if someone says to you, ‘Look, the Anointed One has returned! He’s in the desert,’ don’t go chasing after him. Or if they say to you, ‘Look, he’s here in our house,’ don’t believe it." 
Matthew24:27 The appearing of the Son of Man will burst forth with the brightness of lightning shining from the eastern sky to the west. 
Matthew24:28 How do birds of prey know where the dead body is? They just know instinctively, and so you will know when I appear.”" 
Matthew24:29 “Then immediately this is what will take place: ‘The sun will be darkened and the moon give no light. The stars will fall from the sky and all the cosmic powers will be shaken.’ 
Matthew24:30 Then the sign announcing the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the nations of the earth will mourn over him. And they will see the Son of Man appearing in the clouds of heaven, revealed with mighty power, great splendor, and glory." 
Matthew24:31 And he will send his messengers with the loud blast of the trumpet, and with a great voice they will gather his beloved chosen ones from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other!”" 
Matthew24:32 “Now learn the lesson from the parable of the fig tree. When spring arrives and it sends out its tender branches and sprouts leaves, you know that summer is near." 
Matthew24:33 So it will be with you, for when you observe all these things taking place, you will know that he is near, even at the door!" 
Matthew24:34 I assure you, the end of this age will not come until all I have spoken comes to pass." 
Matthew24:35 The earth and sky will wear out and fade away before one word I speak loses its power or fails to accomplish its purpose.” 
Matthew24:36 “Concerning that day and exact hour, no one knows when it will arrive, not even the angels of heaven —only the Father knows." 
Matthew24:37 For it will be like it was in the days of Noah when the Son of Man appears. 
Matthew24:38 Before the flood, people lived their lives eating, drinking, marrying, and having children." 
Matthew24:39 They didn’t realize the end was near until Noah entered the ark, and then suddenly, the flood came and took them all away in judgment. It will happen the same way when the Son of Man appears." 
Matthew24:40 At that time, two men will be working on the farm; one will be taken away in judgment, the other left." 
Matthew24:41 Two women will be grinding grain; one will be taken away in judgment, the other left." 
Matthew24:42 This is why you must stay alert: because no one knows the day your Lord will come. 
Matthew24:43 “But realize this: If a homeowner had known what time of night the burglar would come to rob his house, he would have been alert and ready, and not let his house be robbed." 
Matthew24:44 So always be ready, alert, and prepared, because at an hour when you’re not expecting him, the Son of Man will come.”" 
Matthew24:45 “What would qualify a servant to manage his master’s house? He would be a wise servant who is both faithful and dependable. The master would commission him to oversee others, for he would lead them well and give them food at the right time." 
Matthew24:46 What joy and blessing will come to that faithful servant when the master comes home to find him serving with excellence! 
Matthew24:47 I can promise you, the master will raise him up and put him in charge of all that he owns." 
Matthew24:48 “But the evil servant says in his heart, ‘My master delays his coming, and who knows when he will return?’ And because of the delay, the servant mistreats those in his master’s household. Instead of caring for the ones he was appointed to serve," 
Matthew24:49 he abuses the other servants and begins to party with drunkards. 
Matthew24:50 Let me tell you what will happen to him. His master will suddenly return unexpectedly, and he will remove the abusive, selfish servant from his position of trust." 
Matthew24:51 And the master will cut him in two and assign him to the place of great sorrow and anguish along with all the other hypocrites.” 
Matthew25:1 “When my coming draws near, heaven’s kingdom realm can be compared to ten maidens who took their oil lamps and went outside to meet the bridegroom and his bride." 
Matthew25:2 Five of them were foolish and ill-prepared, for they took no extra oil for their lamps. Five of them were wise, for they took flasks of olive oil with their lamps." 
Matthew25:3  
Matthew25:4  
Matthew25:5 When the bridegroom didn’t come when they expected, they all grew drowsy and fell asleep." 
Matthew25:6 Then suddenly, in the middle of the night, they were awakened by the shout ‘Get up! The bridegroom is here! Come out and have an encounter with him!’" 
Matthew25:7 So all the girls got up and trimmed their lamps. 
Matthew25:8 But the foolish ones were running out of oil, so they said to the five wise ones, ‘Share your oil with us, because our lamps are going out!’" 
Matthew25:9 “ ‘We can’t,’ they replied. ‘We don’t have enough for all of us. You’ll have to go and buy some for yourselves!’" 
Matthew25:10 “While the five girls were out buying oil, the bridegroom appeared. Those who were ready and waiting were escorted inside with him and the wedding party to enjoy the feast. And then the door was locked." 
Matthew25:11 Later, the five foolish girls came running up to the door and pleaded, ‘Lord, Lord, let us come in!’" 
Matthew25:12 “But he called back, ‘Go away! Do I know you? I can assure you, I don’t even know you!’" 
Matthew25:13 “That is the reason you should always stay awake and be alert, because you don’t know the day or the hour when the Bridegroom will appear.”" 
Matthew25:14 “Again, heaven’s kingdom is like a wealthy man who went on a long journey and summoned all his trusted servants and assigned his financial management over to them." 
Matthew25:15 Before he left on his journey, he entrusted a bag of five thousand gold coins to one of his servants, to another a bag of two thousand gold coins, and to the third a bag of one thousand gold coins, each according to his ability to manage." 
Matthew25:16 “The one entrusted with five thousand gold coins immediately went out and traded with the money, and he doubled his investment." 
Matthew25:17 In the same way, the one who was entrusted with two thousand gold coins traded with the sum and likewise doubled his investment." 
Matthew25:18 But the one who had been entrusted with one thousand gold coins dug a hole in the ground and buried his master’s money. 
Matthew25:19 “After much time had passed, the master returned to settle accounts with his servants." 
Matthew25:20 The one who was entrusted with five thousand gold coins came and brought ten thousand, saying, ‘See, I have doubled your money.’" 
Matthew25:21 “Commending his servant, the master replied, ‘You have done well, and proven yourself to be my loyal and trustworthy servant. Because you have been a faithful steward to manage a small sum, now I will put you in charge of much, much more. You will experience the delight of your master, who will say to you, “Enter into the joy of your Lord!” ’" 
Matthew25:22 “Then the one who had been entrusted with two thousand gold coins came in and said, ‘See, my master, I have doubled what you have entrusted to me.’" 
Matthew25:23 “Commending his servant, the master replied, ‘You have done well, and proven yourself to be my loyal and trustworthy servant. Because you were faithful to manage a small sum, now I will put you in charge of much, much more. You will experience the delight of your master, who will say to you, “Enter into the joy of your Lord!” ’" 
Matthew25:24 “Then the one who had been entrusted with one thousand gold coins came to his master and said, ‘Look, sir. I know that you are a hard man to please and you’re a shrewd and ruthless businessman who grows rich on the backs of others." 
Matthew25:25 I was afraid of you, so I went and hid your money and buried it in the ground. But here it is—take it, it’s yours.’" 
Matthew25:26 “But his master said to him, ‘You’re an untrustworthy and lazy servant! If you knew I was a shrewd and ruthless business man who always makes a profit, why didn’t you deposit my money in the bank?" 
Matthew25:27 Then I would have received it all back with interest when I returned. 
Matthew25:28 But because you were unfaithful, I will take the one thousand gold coins and give them to the one who has ten thousand." 
Matthew25:29 For the one who has will be given more, until he overflows with abundance. And the one with hardly anything, even what little he has will be taken from him.’" 
Matthew25:30 “Then the master said to his other servants, ‘Now, throw that good-for-nothing servant far away from me into the outer darkness, where there will be great misery and anguish!’ ”" 
Matthew25:31 “When the Son of Man appears in his majestic glory, with all his angels by his side, he will take his seat on his throne of splendor," 
Matthew25:32 and all the nations will be gathered together before him. And like a shepherd who separates the sheep from the goats, he will separate all the people." 
Matthew25:33 The ‘sheep’ he will put on his right side and the ‘goats’ on his left. 
Matthew25:34 Then the King will turn to those on his right and say, ‘You have a special place in my Father’s heart. Come and experience the full inheritance of the kingdom realm that has been destined for you from before the foundation of the world!" 
Matthew25:35 For when you saw me hungry, you fed me. When you found me thirsty, you gave me drink. When I had no place to stay, you invited me in," 
Matthew25:36 and when I was poorly clothed, you covered me. When I was sick, you tenderly cared for me, and when I was in prison you visited me.’" 
Matthew25:37 “Then the godly will answer him, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty and give you food and something to drink?" 
Matthew25:38 When did we see you with no place to stay and invite you in? When did we see you poorly clothed and cover you? 
Matthew25:39 When did we see you sick and tenderly care for you, or in prison and visit you?’" 
Matthew25:40 “And the King will answer them, ‘Don’t you know? When you cared for one of the least of these, my little ones, my true brothers and sisters, you demonstrated love for me.’" 
Matthew25:41 “Then to those on his left the King will say, ‘Leave me! For you are under the curse of eternal fire that has been destined for the devil and all his demons." 
Matthew25:42 For when you saw me hungry, you gave me no food, and when you saw me thirsty, you gave me no drink." 
Matthew25:43 I had no place to stay, and you refused to take me in as your guest. When you saw me poorly clothed, you closed your hearts and did not clothe me. When you saw that I was sick, you didn’t lift a finger to help me, and when I was imprisoned, you never came to visit me.’" 
Matthew25:44 “And then those on his left will say, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty and not give you food and something to drink? When did we see you homeless, or poorly clothed? When did we see you sick and not help you, or in prison and not visit you?’" 
Matthew25:45 “Then he will answer them, ‘Don’t you know? When you refused to help one of the least important among these my little ones, my true brothers and sisters, you refused to help and honor me.’" 
Matthew25:46 And they will depart from his presence into eternal punishment. But the godly and beloved ‘sheep’ will enter into eternal bliss.” 
Matthew26:1 After Jesus had completed his teachings, he said to his disciples," 
Matthew26:2 “You know that the Feast of the Passover begins in two more days. That’s when the Son of Man will be betrayed and handed over to be crucified.” 
Matthew26:3 Meanwhile, the prominent priests and religious leaders of the nation were gathered in the palace of Caiaphas the high priest." 
Matthew26:4 That’s when they made their decision to secretly have Jesus captured and killed. 
Matthew26:5 But they all agreed, “We can’t do this during the Passover celebrations or we could have a riot on our hands.”" 
Matthew26:6 Then Jesus went to Bethany, to the home of Simon, a man Jesus had healed of leprosy. A woman came into the house, holding an alabaster flask filled with expensive, fragrant oil. She came right to Jesus, and in a lavish gesture of devotion, she poured out the costly oil, and it cascaded over his head as he was at the table." 
Matthew26:7  
Matthew26:8 When the disciples saw this, they were offended. “What a total waste!” they grumbled." 
Matthew26:9 “We could have sold it for a great deal of money and given it to the poor.” 
Matthew26:10 Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, “Why are you critical of this woman? She has done a beautiful act of kindness." 
Matthew26:11 You will always have someone poor whom you can help, but you will not always have me." 
Matthew26:12 When she poured the fragrant oil over me, she was preparing my body for burial." 
Matthew26:13 I promise you that when this wonderful gospel spreads all over the world, the story of her lavish devotion to me will also be mentioned in memory of her.”" 
Matthew26:14 One of the twelve apostles, Judas the locksmith, went to the leading priests" 
Matthew26:15 and said, “How much are you willing to pay me to betray Jesus into your hands?” They agreed to pay him thirty silver coins." 
Matthew26:16 Immediately Judas began to scheme and look for an opportunity to betray him. 
Matthew26:17 On the first day of Passover, the day when all bread made with yeast was removed from every Jewish home, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Where should we prepare the Passover meal for you?”" 
Matthew26:18 He answered them, “My heart longs with great desire to eat this Passover meal with you. Go into Jerusalem and you will encounter a man. Tell him that the teacher says, ‘My appointed time is near. I am coming to your home to eat the Passover meal with my disciples.’ ”" 
Matthew26:19 The disciples did as Jesus had instructed them, and they prepared the Passover meal." 
Matthew26:20 When evening came he took his place at the table and dined with the Twelve. 
Matthew26:21 While they were eating, Jesus spoke up and said, “One of you is about to betray me.”" 
Matthew26:22 Feeling deeply hurt by these words, one after another asked him, “You don’t mean me, do you?”" 
Matthew26:23 He answered, “It is one who has shared meals with me as an intimate friend." 
Matthew26:24 All that was prophesied of me will take place, but how terrible it will be for the one who betrays the Son of Man. It would be far better for him if he had never been born!”" 
Matthew26:25 Then finally, Judas the traitor spoke up and asked him, “Teacher, perhaps it is I?” Jesus answered, “You said it.”" 
Matthew26:26 As they ate, Jesus took the bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to his disciples. He said to them, “This is my body. Eat it.”" 
Matthew26:27 Then taking the cup of wine, he gave thanks to the Father, he entered into covenant with them, saying, “This is my blood. Each of you must drink it in fulfillment of the covenant." 
Matthew26:28 For this is the blood that seals the new covenant. It will be poured out for many for the complete forgiveness of sins. 
Matthew26:29 The next time we drink this, I will be with you and we will drink it together with a new understanding in the kingdom realm of my Father.”" 
Matthew26:30 Then they sang a psalm and left for the Mount of Olives. 
Matthew26:31 Along the way Jesus said to them, “Before the night is over, you will all desert me. This will fulfill the prophecy of the Scripture that says: I will strike down the shepherd and all the sheep will scatter far and wide!" 
Matthew26:32 “But after I am risen, I will go ahead of you to Galilee and will meet you there.”" 
Matthew26:33 Then Peter spoke up and said, “Even if all the rest lose courage and fall away, I will still be beside you, Jesus!”" 
Matthew26:34 “Are you sure, Peter?” Jesus said. “In fact, before the rooster crows a few hours from now, you will have denied me three times.”" 
Matthew26:35 Peter replied, “I absolutely will never deny you, even if I have to die with you!” And all the others said the same thing." 
Matthew26:36 Then Jesus led his disciples to an orchard called “The Oil Press.” He told them, “Sit here while I go and pray nearby.”" 
Matthew26:37 He took Peter, Jacob, and John with him. However, an intense feeling of great sorrow plunged his soul into agony." 
Matthew26:37 He took Peter, Jacob, and John with him. However, an intense feeling of great sorrow plunged his soul into agony." 
Matthew26:38 And he said to them, “My heart is overwhelmed and crushed with grief. It feels as though I’m dying. Stay here and keep watch with me.”" 
Matthew26:39 Then he walked a short distance away, and overcome with grief, he threw himself facedown on the ground and prayed, “My Father, if there is any way you can deliver me from this suffering, please take it from me. Yet what I want is not important, for I only desire to fulfill your plan for me.” Then an angel from heaven appeared to strengthen him." 
Matthew26:40 Later, he came back to his three disciples and found them all sound asleep. He awakened Peter and said to him, “Could you not stay awake with me for even one hour?" 
Matthew26:41 Keep alert and pray that you’ll be spared from this time of testing. Your spirit is eager enough, but your humanity is weak.”" 
Matthew26:42 Then he left them for a second time to pray in solitude. He said to God, “My Father, if there is not a way that you can deliver me from this suffering, then your will must be done.”" 
Matthew26:43 He came back to the disciples and found them sound asleep, for they couldn’t keep their eyes open." 
Matthew26:44 So he left them and went away to pray the same prayer for the third time. 
Matthew26:45 When he returned again to his disciples, he awoke them, saying, “Are you still sleeping? Don’t you know the hour has come for the Son of Man to be handed over to the authority of sinful men?" 
Matthew26:46 Get up and let’s go, for the betrayer has arrived.”" 
Matthew26:47 At that moment Judas, his once-trusted disciple, appeared, along with a large crowd of men armed with swords and clubs. They had been sent to arrest Jesus by order of the ruling priests and Jewish religious leaders." 
Matthew26:48 Now, Judas, the traitor, had arranged to give them a signal that would identify Jesus, for he had told them, “Jesus is the one whom I will kiss. So seize him!”" 
Matthew26:49 Judas quickly stepped up to Jesus and said, “Shalom, Rabbi,” and he kissed him on both cheeks." 
Matthew26:50 “My beloved friend,” Jesus said, “is this why you’ve come?” Then the armed men seized Jesus to arrest him." 
Matthew26:51 But one of the disciples pulled out a dagger and swung it at the servant of the high priest, slashing off his ear." 
Matthew26:52 Jesus said to him, “Put your dagger away. For all those who embrace violence will die by violence." 
Matthew26:53 Don’t you realize that I could ask my heavenly Father for angels to come at any time to deliver me? And instantly he would answer me by sending more than twelve legions of angels to come and protect us. 
Matthew26:54 But that would thwart the prophetic plan of God. For it has been written that it would happen this way.” 
Matthew26:55 Then Jesus turned to the mob and said, “Why would you arrest me with swords and clubs as though I were an outlaw? Day after day I sat in the temple courts with you, teaching the people, yet you didn’t arrest me." 
Matthew26:56 But all of this fulfills the prophecies of the Scriptures.” At that point all of his disciples ran away and abandoned him. 
Matthew26:57 Those who arrested Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the chief priest, and to a meeting where the religious scholars and the supreme Jewish council were already assembled." 
Matthew26:58 Now, Peter had followed the mob from a distance all the way to the chief priest’s courtyard. And after entering, he sat with the servants of the chief priest who had gathered there, waiting to see how things would unfold." 
Matthew26:59 The chief priests and the entire supreme Jewish council of leaders were doing their best to bring false charges against Jesus, because they were looking for a reason to put him to death." 
Matthew26:60 Many false witnesses came forward, but the evidence could not be corroborated. Finally two men came forward" 
Matthew26:61 and declared, “This man said, ‘I can destroy God’s temple and build it again in three days!’ ”" 
Matthew26:62 Then the chief priest stood up and said to Jesus, “Have you nothing to say about these allegations? Is what they’re saying about you true?”" 
Matthew26:63 But Jesus remained silent before them. So the chief priest said to him, “I charge you under oath—in the name of the living God, tell us once and for all if you are the anointed Messiah, the Son of God!”" 
Matthew26:64 Jesus answered him, “You just said it yourself. And more than that, you are about to see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of God, the Almighty. And one day you will also see the Son of Man coming in the heavenly clouds!”" 
Matthew26:65 This infuriated the chief priest, and as an act of outrage, he tore his robe and shouted, “What blasphemy! No more witnesses are needed, for you heard this grievous blasphemy.”" 
Matthew26:66 Turning to the council he said, “Now, what is your verdict?” “He’s guilty and deserves the death penalty!” they answered." 
Matthew26:67 Then they spat on his face and slapped him. Others struck him over and over with their fists. 
Matthew26:68 Then they taunted him by saying, “Oh, Anointed One, prophesy to us! Tell us which one of us is about to hit you next?”" 
Matthew26:69 Meanwhile, Peter was still sitting outside in the courtyard when a servant girl came up to him and said, “I recognize you. You were with Jesus the Galilean.”" 
Matthew26:70 In front of everyone Peter denied it and said, “I don’t have a clue what you’re talking about.”" 
Matthew26:71 Later, as he stood near the gateway of the courtyard, another servant girl noticed him and said, “I know this man is a follower of Jesus the Nazarene!”" 
Matthew26:72 Once again, Peter denied it, and with an oath he said, “I tell you, I don’t know the man!”" 
Matthew26:73 A short time later, those standing nearby approached Peter and said, “We know you’re one of his disciples—we can tell by your speech. Your Galilean accent gives you away!”" 
Matthew26:74 Peter denied it, and using profanity he said, “I don’t know the man!” At that very moment the sound of a crowing rooster pierced the night." 
Matthew26:75 Then Peter remembered the prophecy of Jesus, “Before the rooster crows you will have denied me three times.” With a shattered heart, Peter left the courtyard, sobbing with bitter tears." 
Matthew27:1 Before dawn that morning, all the chief priests and religious leaders resolved to take action against Jesus and decided that he should be executed." 
Matthew27:2 So they bound him and led him away to Pilate, the Roman governor." 
Matthew27:3 Now, when Judas, the betrayer, saw that Jesus had been sentenced to death, remorse filled his heart. He returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and religious leaders," 
Matthew27:4 saying, “I have sinned by betraying an innocent man.” They replied, “Why are you bothering us? That’s your problem.”" 
Matthew27:5 Then Judas flung the silver coins inside the temple and went out and hanged himself. 
Matthew27:6 The chief priests, picking up the pieces of silver, said, “We can’t keep this, for it’s unlawful to put blood money into the temple treasury.”" 
Matthew27:7 So after some deliberation, they decided to purchase the potter’s field of clay, to use as a cemetery for burying strangers." 
Matthew27:8 That’s why that land has been called “The Field of Blood.” 
Matthew27:9 This fulfilled the prophecy of Zechariah: They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price at which he was valued by the people of Israel, the price of a precious man," 
Matthew27:10 And they bought the potter’s field, as the Lord directed." 
Matthew27:11 As Jesus stood in front of the Roman governor, Pilate asked him, “So, you are the king of the Jews?” Jesus answered, “You have just spoken it.”" 
Matthew27:12 Then he was accused by the chief priests and religious leaders, but he remained silent." 
Matthew27:13 Pilate said, “Don’t you hear these allegations?”" 
Matthew27:14 But Jesus offered no defense to any of the charges, much to the great astonishment of Pilate." 
Matthew27:15 Now, every year at Passover it was the custom of the governor to pardon a prisoner and release him to the people—anyone they wanted." 
Matthew27:16 And at that time, Pilate was holding in custody a notorious criminal named Jesus Barabbas." 
Matthew27:17 So as the crowds of people assembled outside of Pilate’s residence, he went out and offered them a choice. He asked them, “Who would you want me to release to you today, Jesus who is called Barabbas, or Jesus who is called the Anointed One?”" 
Matthew27:18 (Now, Pilate was fully aware that the religious leaders had handed Jesus over to him because of their bitter jealousy.)" 
Matthew27:19 Just then, as Pilate was presiding over the tribunal, his wife sent him an urgent message: “Don’t harm that holy man, for I suffered a horrible nightmare last night about him!”" 
Matthew27:20 Meanwhile, the chief priest and the religious leaders were inciting the crowd to ask for Barabbas to be freed and to have Jesus killed." 
Matthew27:21 So Pilate asked them again, “Which of the two men would you like me to release for you?” They shouted, “Barabbas.”" 
Matthew27:22 Pilate asked them, “Then what would you have me to do with Jesus who is called the Anointed One?” They all shouted back, “Crucify him!”" 
Matthew27:23 “Why?” Pilate asked. “What has he done wrong?” But they kept shouting out, “Crucify him!”" 
Matthew27:24 When Pilate realized that a riot was about to break out and that it was useless to try to reason with the crowd, he sent for a basin of water. After washing his hands in front of the people, he said, “I am innocent of the blood of this righteous man. The responsibility for his death is now yours!”" 
Matthew27:25 And the crowd replied, “Let his blood be on us and on our children!”" 
Matthew27:26 So he released Barabbas to the people. He ordered that Jesus be beaten with a whip of leather straps embedded with metal, and afterward be crucified." 
Matthew27:27 Then the guards took him into their military compound, where a detachment of nearly six hundred soldiers surrounded him." 
Matthew27:28 They stripped off his clothing and placed a scarlet robe on him to make fun of him. 
Matthew27:29 Then they braided a crown of thorns and forcefully shoved it onto his head. After placing a reed staff in his right hand, they knelt down before him and mocked him, saying, “Hail, king of the Jews!”" 
Matthew27:30 Then they spat in his face and took the reed staff from his hand and hit him repeatedly on his head, driving the crown of thorns deeper." 
Matthew27:31 When they finished ridiculing him, they took off the scarlet robe and put his own clothes back on him and led him away to be crucified." 
Matthew27:32 And as they came out of the city, they stopped an African man named Simon, from Libya, and compelled him to carry the cross for Jesus." 
Matthew27:33 They brought Jesus to Golgotha, which means “Skull Hill.”" 
Matthew27:34 And there the soldiers offered him a mild painkiller, a drink of wine mixed with gall, but after tasting it, he refused to drink it." 
Matthew27:35 Then they crucified Jesus, nailing his hands and feet to the cross. The soldiers divided his clothing among themselves by rolling dice to see who would win them." 
Matthew27:36 And the soldiers stood there to watch what would happen and to keep guard over him. 
Matthew27:37 Above his head they placed a sign that read, “This is Jesus of Nazareth, King of Israel.”" 
Matthew27:38 Two criminals were also crucified with Jesus, one on each side of him." 
Matthew27:39 And those who passed by shook their heads and ridiculed him," 
Matthew27:40 saying, “We heard you boast that you could destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days! Why don’t you save yourself now? If you’re really God’s Son, come down from the cross!”" 
Matthew27:41 Even the ruling priests, with the Jewish scholars and religious leaders, joined in the mockery" 
Matthew27:42 and kept on saying, “He saved others, but he can’t even save himself! Israel’s king, is he? He should pull out the nails and come down from the cross right now; then we’ll believe in him!" 
Matthew27:43 He puts his trust in God, so let’s see if it’s true, and see if God really wants to rescue him, for he said, ‘I am the Son of God.’ ”" 
Matthew27:44 Even the two criminals who were crucified with Jesus began to taunt him, hurling their insults on him." 
Matthew27:45 For three hours, beginning at noon, a sudden and unexpected darkness came over the earth." 
Matthew27:46 And at three o’clock Jesus shouted with a mighty voice in Aramaic, “Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?” —that is, “My God, My God, why have you deserted me?”" 
Matthew27:47 Some who were standing near the cross misunderstood and said, “He’s calling for Elijah.”" 
Matthew27:48 One bystander ran and got a sponge, soaked it with sour wine, then put it on a stick and held it up for Jesus to drink." 
Matthew27:49 But the rest said, “Leave him alone! Let’s see if Elijah comes to rescue him.”" 
Matthew27:50 Jesus passionately cried out, took his last breath, and gave up his spirit." 
Matthew27:51 At that moment the veil in the Holy of Holies was torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth shook violently, rocks were violently split apart," 
Matthew27:52 and graves were opened. Then many of the holy ones who had died were brought back to life and came out of their graves. 
Matthew27:53 And after Jesus’ resurrection, they were seen by many people walking in Jerusalem." 
Matthew27:54 Now, when the Roman military officer and his soldiers witnessed what was happening and felt the powerful earthquake, they were extremely terrified. They said, “There is no doubt, this man was the Son of God!”" 
Matthew27:55 Watching from a distance were many of the women who had followed him from Galilee and given him support. 
Matthew27:56 Among them were Mary Magdalene; Mary, the mother of Jacob and Joseph; and the mother of Jacob and John." 
Matthew27:56 Among them were Mary Magdalene; Mary, the mother of Jacob and Joseph; and the mother of Jacob and John." 
Matthew27:57 At the end of the day, a wealthy man named Joseph, a follower of Jesus from the village of Ramah," 
Matthew27:58 approached Pilate and asked if he could take custody of the body of Jesus. So Pilate consented and ordered that the body be given to him. 
Matthew27:59 Then Joseph wrapped the body in a shroud of fine linen and placed it in his own unused tomb, which had only recently been cut into the rock." 
Matthew27:60 They rolled a large stone to seal the entrance of the tomb and left. 
Matthew27:61 Sitting across from the tomb were Mary Magdalene and the other Marys, watching all that took place." 
Matthew27:62 The next day, the day after Preparation Day for Passover, the chief priests and the Pharisees went together to Pilate." 
Matthew27:63 They said to him, “Our master, we remember that this imposter claimed that he would rise from the dead after three days." 
Matthew27:64 So please, order the tomb to be sealed until after the third day. Seal it so that his disciples can’t come and steal the corpse and tell people he rose from the dead. Then the last deception would be worse than the first!”" 
Matthew27:65 “I will send soldiers to guard the tomb,” Pilate replied. “Go with them and make the tomb as secure as possible.”" 
Matthew27:66 So they left and sealed the stone, and Pilate’s soldiers secured the tomb." 
Matthew28:1 After the Sabbath ended, at the first light of dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to take a look at the tomb." 
Matthew28:2 Suddenly, the earth shook violently beneath their feet as the angel of the Yahweh descended from heaven. Lightning flashed around him and his robe was dazzling white! The guards were stunned and terrified—lying motionless like dead men. Then the angel walked up to the tomb, rolled away the stone, and sat on top of it!" 
Matthew28:3  
Matthew28:4  
Matthew28:5 The women were breathless and terrified, until the angel said to them, “There’s no reason to be afraid. I know you’re here looking for Jesus, who was crucified." 
Matthew28:6 He isn’t here—he has risen victoriously, just as he said! Come inside the tomb and see the place where our Lord was lying." 
Matthew28:7 Then run and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead! I give you his message: ‘I am going ahead of you to Galilee and you will see me there.’ ” 
Matthew28:8 They rushed quickly to tell his disciples, and their hearts were filled with fear, awe, and great joy at the same time." 
Matthew28:9 Along the way, Jesus suddenly appeared in front of them and said, “Rejoice!” They were so overwhelmed by seeing him that they bowed down and grasped his feet in adoring worship." 
Matthew28:10 Then Jesus said to them, “Throw off all your fears. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. They will find me there.”" 
Matthew28:11 After the women left the tomb, a few of the guards went into Jerusalem and told the chief priests everything they had seen and heard." 
Matthew28:12 So the chief priests called a meeting with all the religious leaders and came up with a plan. They bribed the guards with a large sum of money 
Matthew28:13 and told them, “Tell everyone, ‘While we were asleep, his disciples came at night and stole his body!’" 
Matthew28:14 If Pilate finds out about this, don’t worry. We’ll make sure you don’t get blamed.”" 
Matthew28:15 So they took the money and did as they were told. (That is why the story of the guards is still circulated among the Jews to this day.) 
Matthew28:16 Meanwhile, the eleven disciples heard the wonderful news from the women and left for Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had arranged to meet them." 
Matthew28:17 The moment they saw him, they worshiped him, but some still had lingering doubts." 
Matthew28:18 Then Jesus came close to them and said, “All authority of the universe has been given to me." 
Matthew28:19 Now wherever you go, make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew28:20 And teach them to faithfully follow all that I have commanded you. And never forget that I am with you every day, even to the completion of this age.”" 
Mark1:1 This is the beginning of the wonderful news about Jesus the Messiah, the Son of God." 
Mark1:2 It starts with Isaiah the prophet, who wrote: Listen! I am sending my messenger ahead of you and he will prepare your way!" 
Mark1:3 He is a thunderous voice of one who shouts in the wilderness: “Prepare your hearts for the coming of the Lord Yahweh, and clear a straight path inside your hearts for him!”" 
Mark1:4 John the Baptizer was the messenger who appeared in the wilderness, preaching a baptism of repentance for the complete cancellation of sins." 
Mark1:4 John the Baptizer was the messenger who appeared in the wilderness, preaching a baptism of repentance for the complete cancellation of sins." 
Mark1:5 A steady stream of people came to be dipped in the Jordan River as they publicly confessed their sins. They came from all over southern Israel, including nearly all the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Mark1:6 John wore a rough garment made from camel hair, with a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and honey." 
Mark1:6 John wore a rough garment made from camel hair, with a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and honey." 
Mark1:7 And this is the message he kept preaching: “There is a man coming after me who is greater and a lot more powerful than I am. I’m not even worthy to bend down and untie the strap of his sandals. 
Mark1:8 I’ve baptized you into water, but he will baptize you into the Spirit of Holiness!”" 
Mark1:9 One day, Jesus came from the Galilean village of Nazareth and had John immerse him in the Jordan River." 
Mark1:9 One day, Jesus came from the Galilean village of Nazareth and had John immerse him in the Jordan River." 
Mark1:10 The moment Jesus rose up out of the water, John saw the heavenly realm split open, and the Holy Spirit descended upon him like a dove." 
Mark1:10 The moment Jesus rose up out of the water, John saw the heavenly realm split open, and the Holy Spirit descended upon him like a dove." 
Mark1:11 At the same time, a voice spoke from heaven, saying: “You are my Son, my cherished one, and my greatest delight is in you!”" 
Mark1:12 Immediately after this he was compelled by the Holy Spirit to go into an uninhabited desert region. 
Mark1:13 He remained there in the wilderness for forty days, enduring the ordeals of Satan’s tests. He encountered wild animals, but also angels who appeared and ministered to his needs." 
Mark1:14 Later on, after John the Baptizer was arrested, Jesus went back into the region of Galilee and preached the wonderful gospel of God’s kingdom." 
Mark1:14 Later on, after John the Baptizer was arrested, Jesus went back into the region of Galilee and preached the wonderful gospel of God’s kingdom." 
Mark1:15 His message was this: “At last the fulfillment of the age has come! It is time for God’s kingdom to be experienced in its fullness! Turn your lives back to God and put your trust in the hope-filled gospel!” 
Mark1:16 As Jesus was walking along the shore of Lake Galilee, he noticed two brothers fishing: Simon and Andrew. He watched them as they were casting their nets into the sea" 
Mark1:17 and said to them, “Come follow me and I will transform you into fishers of men instead of fish!”" 
Mark1:18 Immediately they dropped their nets and left everything behind to follow Jesus. 
Mark1:19 Walking a little farther, Jesus found two other brothers sitting in a boat, along with their father, mending their nets. Their names were Jacob and John, and their father Zebedee." 
Mark1:19 Walking a little farther, Jesus found two other brothers sitting in a boat, along with their father, mending their nets. Their names were Jacob and John, and their father Zebedee." 
Mark1:20 Jesus immediately walked up to them and invited the two brothers to become his followers. Jacob and John dropped their nets, stood up, left their father in the boat with the hired men, and followed Jesus." 
Mark1:20 Jesus immediately walked up to them and invited the two brothers to become his followers. Jacob and John dropped their nets, stood up, left their father in the boat with the hired men, and followed Jesus." 
Mark1:21 Then Jesus and his disciples went to Capernaum, and he immediately started teaching on the Sabbath day in the synagogue." 
Mark1:22 The people were awestruck by his teaching, because he taught in a way that demonstrated God’s authority, which was quite unlike the religious scholars." 
Mark1:23 Suddenly, during the meeting, a demon-possessed man screamed out," 
Mark1:24 “Hey! Leave us alone! Jesus the victorious, I know who you are. You’re God’s Holy One and you have come to destroy us!”" 
Mark1:25 Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Silence! You are bound! Come out of him!”" 
Mark1:26 The man’s body shook violently in spasms, and the demon hurled him to the floor until it finally came out of him with a deafening shriek!" 
Mark1:27 The crowd was awestruck and kept saying among themselves, “What is this new teaching that comes with such authority? With merely a word he commands demons to come out and they obey him!”" 
Mark1:28 So the reports about Jesus spread like wildfire throughout every community in Galilee. 
Mark1:29 Now, as soon as they left the meeting, they went straight to Simon and Andrew’s house, along with Jacob and John." 
Mark1:29 Now, as soon as they left the meeting, they went straight to Simon and Andrew’s house, along with Jacob and John." 
Mark1:30 Simon’s mother-in-law was bedridden, sick with a high fever, so the first thing they did was to tell Jesus about her." 
Mark1:31 He walked up to her bedside, gently took her hand, and raised her up! Her fever disappeared and she began to serve them." 
Mark1:32 Later in the day, just after the Sabbath ended at sunset, the people kept bringing to Jesus all who were sick and tormented by demons," 
Mark1:33 until the whole village was crowded around the house. 
Mark1:34 Jesus healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons. But he would not permit the demons to speak, because they knew who he really was." 
Mark1:35 The next morning, Jesus got up long before daylight, left the house while it was dark, and made his way to a secluded place to give himself to prayer." 
Mark1:36 Later, Simon and his friends searched for him," 
Mark1:37 and when they finally tracked him down, they told him, “Everyone is looking for you—they want you!”" 
Mark1:38 Jesus replied, “We have to go on to the surrounding villages so that I can share my message with the people there, for that is my mission.”" 
Mark1:39 So he went throughout the region of Galilee, preaching in the Jewish synagogues and casting out demons." 
Mark1:40 On one occasion, a leper came and threw himself down in front of Jesus, pleading for his healing, saying, “You have the power to heal me right now if only you really want to!”" 
Mark1:41 Being deeply moved with tender compassion, Jesus reached out and touched the skin of the leper and told him, “Of course I want you to be healed—so now, be cleansed!”" 
Mark1:42 Instantly his leprous sores completely disappeared and his skin became smooth! 
Mark1:43 Jesus sent him away with a very stern warning," 
Mark1:44 saying, “Don’t say anything to anyone about what just happened, but go find a priest and show him that you’ve been healed. Then bring the offering that Moses commanded for your cleansing as a living testimony to everyone.”" 
Mark1:45 But no sooner did the man leave than he began to proclaim his healing publicly and tell the story everywhere. Jesus’ growing fame prevented him from entering the villages openly, which forced him to remain in isolated places. Even so, a steady stream of people flocked to him from everywhere." 
Mark2:1 Several days later, Jesus returned to Capernaum, and the news quickly spread that he was back in town." 
Mark2:2 Soon there were so many people crowded inside the house to hear him that there was no more room, even outside the door. While Jesus was preaching the word of God," 
Mark2:3 four men arrived, carrying a paralyzed man." 
Mark2:4 But when they realized that they couldn’t even get near him because of the crowd, they went up on top of the house and tore away the roof above Jesus’ head. And when they had broken through, they lowered the paralyzed man on a stretcher right down in front of him!" 
Mark2:5 When Jesus saw the extent of their faith, he said to the paralyzed man, “My son, your sins are now forgiven.”" 
Mark2:6 This offended some of the religious scholars who were present, and they reasoned among themselves," 
Mark2:7 “Who does he think he is to speak this way? This is blasphemy for sure! Only God himself can forgive sins!” 
Mark2:8 Jesus supernaturally perceived their thoughts and said to them, “Why are you being so skeptical?" 
Mark2:9 Which is easier, to say to this paralyzed man, ‘Your sins are now forgiven,’ or, ‘Stand up and walk!’?" 
Mark2:10 But to convince you that the Son of Man has been given authority to forgive sins," 
Mark2:11 I say to this man, ‘Stand up, pick up your stretcher, and walk home.’ ”" 
Mark2:12 Immediately the man was healed and sprang to his feet in front of everyone and left for home. When the crowd witnessed this miracle, they were awestruck. They shouted praises to God and said, “We’ve never seen anything like this before!”" 
Mark2:13 Jesus went out to walk near Lake Galilee, and a massive crowd gathered, so he taught them." 
Mark2:14 As he walked along, he found Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at a tax booth, collecting taxes. He approached him and said, “Come follow me.” Immediately he got up from his booth and began to follow Jesus." 
Mark2:15 Later, Jesus and his disciples went to have a meal with Levi. Among the guests in Levi’s home were many tax collectors and notable sinners sharing a meal with Jesus, for there were many kinds of people who followed him." 
Mark2:16 But when the religious scholars and the Pharisees found out that Jesus was keeping company and dining with sinners and tax collectors, they were indignant. So they approached Jesus’ disciples and said to them, “Why is it that someone like Jesus defiles himself by eating with sinners and tax collectors?”" 
Mark2:17 But when Jesus overheard their complaint, he said to them, “Who goes to the doctor for a cure? Those who are well or those who are sick? I have not come to call the ‘righteous,’ but those who are sinners and bring them to repentance.”" 
Mark2:18 One time, the disciples of John the Baptizer and the Pharisees were fasting. So they came to Jesus and asked, “Why is it that John’s disciples and disciples of the Pharisees are fasting but your disciples are not?”" 
Mark2:18 One time, the disciples of John the Baptizer and the Pharisees were fasting. So they came to Jesus and asked, “Why is it that John’s disciples and disciples of the Pharisees are fasting but your disciples are not?”" 
Mark2:19 Jesus answered, “How can the sons of the bridal chamber fast when the bridegroom is next to them? As long as the bridegroom is with them they won’t," 
Mark2:20 but the days of fasting will come when the Bridegroom is taken from them. 
Mark2:21 “And who would mend worn-out clothing with new fabric? When the new cloth shrinks, it will rip, making the tear worse than before." 
Mark2:22 And who would pour new wine into an old wineskin? Eventually the wine will ferment and make the wineskin burst, losing everything—the wine will be spilled and the wineskin ruined. Instead, new wine is always poured into new wineskins.”" 
Mark2:23 One Sabbath, Jesus and his disciples were walking through a field of wheat. The disciples were hungry, so they plucked off some heads of grain to eat." 
Mark2:24 But when some of the Pharisees saw what was happening, they said to him, “Look! Your disciples shouldn’t be harvesting grain on the Sabbath!”" 
Mark2:25 Jesus responded, “Haven’t you ever read what King David and his men did when they were hungry?" 
Mark2:26 They entered the house of God when Abiathar was high priest and ate the sacred bread of God’s presence. They violated the law by eating bread that only the priests were allowed to eat. But there is one here who is even greater than the temple.” 
Mark2:27 Then he said to them, “The Sabbath was made for the sake of people, and not people for the Sabbath." 
Mark2:28 For this reason the Son of Man exercises his lordship over the Sabbath.” 
Mark3:1 Then Jesus left them and went again into the synagogue, where he encountered a man who had an atrophied, paralyzed hand." 
Mark3:2 Everyone was watching Jesus closely to see if he would heal the man on the Sabbath, giving them a reason to accuse him of breaking Sabbath rules." 
Mark3:3 Jesus said to the man with the paralyzed hand, “Stand here in the middle of the room.”" 
Mark3:4 Then he turned to all those gathered there and said, “Is it against the law to do evil on the Sabbath or to do good? To destroy a life or to save one?” But no one answered him a word." 
Mark3:5 Then looking around at everyone, Jesus was moved with indignation and grieved by the hardness of their hearts and said to the man, “Now stretch out your hand!” As he stretched out his hand, it was instantly healed!" 
Mark3:6 After this happened, the Pharisees left abruptly and began to plot together with the friends and supporters of Herod Antipas on how they would kill Jesus." 
Mark3:7 Once again Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the lakeside, but a massive crowd of people followed him from all around the provinces of Galilee and southern Israel." 
Mark3:8 Vast crowds came from Jerusalem, Idumea, beyond the Jordan, and from Lebanon. Large numbers of people swarmed in from everywhere when they heard of him and his wonderful works." 
Mark3:9 The crowd pressed so closely to Jesus that he instructed his disciples to bring him a small boat to get into and keep from being crushed by the crowd. 
Mark3:10 For he had healed so many that the sick kept pushing forward just so they could touch Jesus. 
Mark3:11 And whenever a demon saw him, it would throw the person down at Jesus’ feet, screaming out, “You are the Son of God!”" 
Mark3:12 But Jesus would silence the demons and sternly order them not to reveal who he was. 
Mark3:13 Afterward, Jesus went up on a mountainside and called to himself the men he wanted to be his close companions, so they went up with him." 
Mark3:14 He appointed the Twelve, whom he named apostles. He wanted them to be continually at his side as his friends, and so that he could send them out to preach" 
Mark3:15 and have authority to heal the sick and to cast out demons. 
Mark3:16 He appointed his Twelve and gave Simon the nickname Peter the Rock. 
Mark3:17 And he gave the brothers, Jacob and John, the sons of Zebedee, the nickname Benay-Regah, which means “passionate sons.”" 
Mark3:17 And he gave the brothers, Jacob and John, the sons of Zebedee, the nickname Benay-Regah, which means “passionate sons.”" 
Mark3:18 The others were Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, Jacob the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Nationalist," 
Mark3:18 The others were Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, Jacob the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Nationalist," 
Mark3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him." 
Mark3:20 Then Jesus went home, but once again a large crowd gathered around him, which prevented him from even eating a meal." 
Mark3:21 When his own family heard that he was there, they went out to seize him, for they said, “He’s insane!”" 
Mark3:22 The religious scholars who arrived from Jerusalem were saying, “Satan has possessed him! He casts out demons by the authority of the prince of demons!”" 
Mark3:23 Jesus called them to himself and spoke to them using parables. “How can Satan cast out Satan? 
Mark3:24 No kingdom can endure if it is divided against itself," 
Mark3:25 and a fragmented household will not be able to stand, for it is divided." 
Mark3:26 And if Satan fights against himself he will not endure, and his end has come.”" 
Mark3:27 Jesus said to them, “Listen. No one is able to break into a mighty man’s house and steal his property unless he first overpowers the mighty man and ties him up. Then his entire house can be plundered and his possessions taken." 
Mark3:28 I tell you this timeless truth: All sin will be forgiven, even all the blasphemies that are spoken." 
Mark3:29 But there can never be forgiveness for the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, for he is guilty of an eternal sin!”" 
Mark3:30 (This is because they said he was empowered by a demon spirit.) 
Mark3:31 Then Jesus’ mother and his brothers came and stood outside and sent a message to him, asking that he come out and speak with them." 
Mark3:32 When the crowd sitting around Jesus heard this, they spoke up, and said to him, “Jesus, your mother and brothers are outside looking for you.”" 
Mark3:33 He answered them, “Who is my true mother and my true brothers?”" 
Mark3:34 Then looking in the eyes of those who were sitting in a circle around him, he said, “Here are my true family members." 
Mark3:35 For whoever does the will of God is my brother, my sister, and my mother!”" 
Mark4:1 Once again Jesus went to teach the people at the shore of Lake Galilee and a massive crowd surrounded him. The crowd was so huge that he had to get into a boat and teach the people from there. 
Mark4:2 He taught them many things by using parables to illustrate spiritual truths, saying:" 
Mark4:3 “Consider this: A sower went out to sow. 
Mark4:4 As he sowed some fell along the beaten path and soon the birds came and ate it. 
Mark4:5 Some fell onto gravel with no topsoil and quickly sprouted since the soil had no depth. 
Mark4:6 But when the days grew hot, the sprouts were scorched and withered because they had insufficient roots." 
Mark4:7 Some fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no fruit." 
Mark4:8 But some fell onto good, rich soil that kept producing a good harvest. Some yielded thirty, some sixty—and some a hundredfold!" 
Mark4:9 If you understand this, then you need to respond.”" 
Mark4:10 Afterward, Jesus’ disciples and those close to him remained behind to ask Jesus about his parables." 
Mark4:11 He said to them, “The privilege of intimately knowing the mystery of God’s kingdom realm has been granted to you, but not to the others, where everything is revealed in parables." 
Mark4:12 “For even when they see what I do, they will not understand, and when they hear what I say, they will learn nothing, otherwise they would repent and be forgiven.”" 
Mark4:13 Then he said to them, “If you don’t understand this parable, how will you understand any parable?" 
Mark4:14 Let me explain: The farmer sows the message of the kingdom. 
Mark4:15 What falls on the beaten path represents those who hear the message, but immediately Satan appears and snatches it from their hearts." 
Mark4:16 And what is sown on gravel represents those who hear the message and receive it joyfully," 
Mark4:17 but because their hearts fail to sink a deep root, they don’t endure for long. For when trouble or persecution comes on account of the message, they immediately wilt and fall away." 
Mark4:18 And what is sown among thorns represents those who hear the message," 
Mark4:19 but they allow the cares of this life and the seduction of wealth and the desires for other things to crowd out and choke the message so that it produces nothing. 
Mark4:20 “But what is sown on good soil represents those who open their hearts to receive the message and their lives bear good fruit—some yield a harvest of thirty, sixty, even a hundredfold!”" 
Mark4:21 He also gave them this parable: “No one lights a lamp only to place it under a basket or under the bed. It is meant to be placed on a lampstand. 
Mark4:22 For there is nothing that is hidden that won’t be disclosed, and there is no secret that won’t be brought out into the light!" 
Mark4:23 If you understand what I’m saying, you need to respond!”" 
Mark4:24 Then he said to them, “Be diligent to understand the meaning behind everything you hear, for as you do, more understanding will be given to you. And according to your longing to understand, much more will be added to you." 
Mark4:25 For those who listen with open hearts will receive more revelation. But those who don’t listen with open hearts will lose what little they think they have!” 
Mark4:26 Jesus also told them this parable: “God’s kingdom realm is like someone spreading seed on the ground. 
Mark4:27 He goes to bed and gets up, day after day, and the seed sprouts and grows tall, though he knows not how." 
Mark4:28 All by itself it sprouts, and the soil produces a crop; first the green stem, then the head on the stalk, and then the fully developed grain in the head." 
Mark4:29 Then, when the grain is ripe, he immediately puts the sickle to the grain, because harvest time has come.”" 
Mark4:30 And he told them this parable: “How can I describe God’s kingdom realm? Let me illustrate it with this parable. 
Mark4:31 It is like the mustard seed, the tiniest of all the seeds," 
Mark4:32 yet when it springs up and grows, it becomes the largest plant in the garden, with so many large spreading branches, even birds can nest in its shade.”" 
Mark4:33 Jesus used many parables such as these as he taught the people, and they learned according to their ability to understand." 
Mark4:34 He never spoke to them without using parables, but would wait until he was alone with his disciples to explain to them their meanings." 
Mark4:35 That same day, after it grew dark, Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s cross over to the other side of the lake.”" 
Mark4:36 Leaving the crowd behind, the disciples got into the boat in which Jesus was already sitting, and they took him with them. Other boats sailed with them." 
Mark4:37 Suddenly, as they were crossing the lake, a ferocious storm arose, with violent winds and waves that were crashing into the boat until it was nearly swamped." 
Mark4:38 But Jesus was calmly sleeping in the stern, resting on a cushion." 
Mark4:39 So they shook him awake, saying, “Teacher, don’t you even care that we are all about to die!” Fully awake, he rebuked the storm and shouted to the sea, “Hush! Be still!” All at once the wind stopped howling and the water became perfectly calm." 
Mark4:40 Then he turned to his disciples and said to them, “Why are you so afraid? Haven’t you learned to trust yet?”" 
Mark4:41 But they were overwhelmed with fear and awe and said to one another, “Who is this man who has such authority that even the wind and waves obey him?”" 
Mark5:1 They arrived at the other side of the lake, at the region of the Gerasenes." 
Mark5:2 As Jesus stepped ashore, a demon-possessed madman came out of the graveyard and confronted him." 
Mark5:3 The man had been living there among the tombs, and no one was able to restrain him, not even with chains." 
Mark5:4 For every time they attempted to chain his hands and feet with shackles, he would snap the chains and break the shackles in pieces. He was so strong that no one had the power to subdue him." 
Mark5:5 Day and night he could be found lurking in the cemetery or in the vicinity, shrieking and cutting himself with stones!" 
Mark5:6 When he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran to him and threw himself down before him," 
Mark5:7 shouting at the top of his lungs, “Leave me alone, Jesus, Son of the Most High God! Swear in God’s name that you won’t torture me!”" 
Mark5:8 (For Jesus had already said to him, “Come out of that man, you demon spirit!”)" 
Mark5:9 Jesus said to him, “What is your name?” “Mob,” he answered. “They call me Mob because there are thousands of us in his body!”" 
Mark5:10 He begged Jesus repeatedly not to expel them out of the region. 
Mark5:11 Nearby there was a large herd of pigs feeding on the hillside. 
Mark5:12 The demons begged him, “Send us into the pigs. Let us enter them!”" 
Mark5:13 So Jesus gave them permission, and the demon horde immediately came out of the man and went into the pigs! This caused the herd to rush madly down the steep slope and fall into the lake, drowning about two thousand pigs!" 
Mark5:14 At this, the herdsmen ran to the nearby villages, telling everyone along the way what had happened, and the people came out to see for themselves." 
Mark5:15 When they found Jesus, they saw the demonized man sitting there, properly clothed and in his right mind. Seeing what had happened to the man possessed by many demons, the people became afraid." 
Mark5:16 Those who had witnessed this miracle reported the news to the people and included what had happened to the pigs. 
Mark5:17 Then they asked Jesus to leave their region. 
Mark5:18 And as Jesus began to get into the boat to depart, the man who had been set free from demons asked him, “Could I go with you?”" 
Mark5:19 Jesus answered, “No,” but said to him, “Go back to your home and to your family and tell them what the Lord has done for you. Tell them how he had mercy on you.”" 
Mark5:20 So the man left and went into the region of Jordan and parts of Syria to tell everyone he met about what Jesus had done for him, and all the people marveled!" 
Mark5:21 After Jesus returned from across the lake, a huge crowd of people quickly gathered around him on the shoreline." 
Mark5:22 Just then, a man saw that it was Jesus, so he pushed through the crowd and threw himself down at his feet. His name was Jairus, a Jewish official who was in charge of the synagogue." 
Mark5:23 He pleaded with Jesus, saying over and over, “Please come with me! My little daughter is at the point of death, and she’s only twelve years old! Come and lay your hands on her and heal her and she will live!”" 
Mark5:24 Immediately Jesus went with him, and the huge crowd followed, pressing in on him from all sides." 
Mark5:25 Now, in the crowd that day was a woman who had suffered horribly from continual bleeding for twelve years." 
Mark5:26 She had endured a great deal under the care of various doctors, yet in spite of spending all she had on their treatments, she was getting worse instead of better." 
Mark5:27 When she heard about Jesus’ healing power, she pushed through the crowd and came up from behind him and touched his prayer shawl." 
Mark5:28 For she kept saying to herself, “If I could touch even his clothes, I know I will be healed.”" 
Mark5:29 As soon as her hand touched him, her bleeding immediately stopped! She knew it, for she could feel her body instantly being healed of her disease!" 
Mark5:30 Jesus knew at once that someone had touched him, for he felt the power that always surged around him had passed through him for someone to be healed. He turned and spoke to the crowd, saying, “Who touched my clothes?”" 
Mark5:31 His disciples answered, “What do you mean, who touched you? Look at this huge crowd—they’re all pressing up against you.”" 
Mark5:32 But Jesus’ eyes swept across the crowd, looking for the one who had touched him for healing." 
Mark5:33 When the woman who experienced this miracle realized what had happened to her, she came before him, trembling with fear, and threw herself down at his feet, saying, “I was the one who touched you.” And she told him her story of what had just happened." 
Mark5:34 Then Jesus said to her, “Daughter, because you dared to believe, your faith has healed you. Go with peace in your heart, and be free from your suffering!”" 
Mark5:35 And before he had finished speaking, people arrived from Jairus’ house and pushed through the crowd to give Jairus the news: “There’s no need to trouble the master any longer—your daughter has died.”" 
Mark5:36 But Jesus refused to listen to what they were told and said to the Jewish official, “Don’t yield to fear. All you need to do is to keep on believing.”" 
Mark5:37 So they left for his home, but Jesus didn’t allow anyone to go with them except Peter and the two brothers, Jacob and John." 
Mark5:37 So they left for his home, but Jesus didn’t allow anyone to go with them except Peter and the two brothers, Jacob and John." 
Mark5:38 When they arrived at the home of the synagogue ruler, they encountered a noisy uproar among the people, for they were all weeping and wailing." 
Mark5:39 Upon entering the home, Jesus said to them, “Why all this grief and weeping? Don’t you know the girl is not dead but merely asleep?”" 
Mark5:40 Then everyone began to ridicule and make fun of him. But he threw them all outside. Then he took the child’s father and mother and his three disciples and went into the room where the girl was lying. 
Mark5:41 He tenderly clasped the child’s hand in his and said to her in Aramaic, “Talitha koum,” which means, “Little girl, wake up from the sleep of death.”" 
Mark5:42 Instantly the twelve-year-old girl sat up, stood to her feet, and started walking around the room! Everyone was overcome with astonishment in seeing this miracle!" 
Mark5:43 Jesus had them bring her something to eat. And he cautioned them repeatedly that they were to tell no one about what had happened. 
Mark6:1 Afterward, Jesus left Capernaum and returned with his disciples to Nazareth, his hometown." 
Mark6:2 On the Sabbath, he went to teach in the synagogue. Everyone who heard his teaching was overwhelmed with astonishment. They said among themselves, “What incredible wisdom has been given to him! Where did he receive such profound insights? And what mighty miracles flow through his hands!" 
Mark6:3 Isn’t this Mary’s son, the carpenter, the brother of Jacob, Joseph, Judah, and Simon? And don’t his sisters all live here in Nazareth?” And they took offense at him." 
Mark6:4 Jesus said to them, “A prophet is treated with honor everywhere except in his own hometown, among his relatives, and in his own house.”" 
Mark6:5 He was unable to do any great miracle in Nazareth, except to heal a few sick people by laying his hands upon them." 
Mark6:6 He was amazed at the depth of their unbelief! Then Jesus went out into the different villages and taught the people. 
Mark6:7 Jesus gathered his twelve disciples and imparted to them his authority to cast out demons. Then he sent them out in pairs with these instructions: 
Mark6:8 “Take only your staff and the sandals on your feet—no bread, no knapsack, no extra garment, and no money." 
Mark6:9  
Mark6:10 And whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave the area." 
Mark6:11 Whatever community does not welcome you or receive your message, leave it behind. And as you go, shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.”" 
Mark6:12 So they went out and preached publicly that everyone should repent. 
Mark6:13 They cast out many demons and anointed many sick people with oil and healed them. 
Mark6:14 King Herod soon heard about Jesus, for the name of Jesus was on everyone’s lips. Some were even saying about him, “John the Baptizer has been raised from the dead, and that’s why miraculous powers flow from him!”" 
Mark6:14 King Herod soon heard about Jesus, for the name of Jesus was on everyone’s lips. Some were even saying about him, “John the Baptizer has been raised from the dead, and that’s why miraculous powers flow from him!”" 
Mark6:15 Others said, “No, he’s Elijah!” While others said, “He’s a prophet, like one of the prophets of old!”" 
Mark6:16 When Herod heard what the people were saying, he concluded, “I beheaded John, and now he’s raised from the dead!”" 
Mark6:16 When Herod heard what the people were saying, he concluded, “I beheaded John, and now he’s raised from the dead!”" 
Mark6:17 For Herod had John arrested and thrown into prison for repeatedly rebuking him in public, saying, “You have no right to marry Herodias, the wife of your brother Philip! You are violating the law of God!”" 
Mark6:17 For Herod had John arrested and thrown into prison for repeatedly rebuking him in public, saying, “You have no right to marry Herodias, the wife of your brother Philip! You are violating the law of God!”" 
Mark6:18  
Mark6:19 This infuriated Herodias, and she held a bitter grudge against him and wanted John executed." 
Mark6:19 This infuriated Herodias, and she held a bitter grudge against him and wanted John executed." 
Mark6:20 But Herod both feared and stood in awe of John and kept him safely in custody, because he was convinced that he was a righteous and holy man. Every time Herod heard John speak, it disturbed his soul, but he was drawn to him and was intrigued by his words." 
Mark6:20 But Herod both feared and stood in awe of John and kept him safely in custody, because he was convinced that he was a righteous and holy man. Every time Herod heard John speak, it disturbed his soul, but he was drawn to him and was intrigued by his words." 
Mark6:21 But Herodias found her opportunity to have John killed—it was on the king’s birthday! Herod prepared a great banquet and invited all his officials, military commanders, and the leaders of the province of Galilee to celebrate with him on his birthday." 
Mark6:21 But Herodias found her opportunity to have John killed—it was on the king’s birthday! Herod prepared a great banquet and invited all his officials, military commanders, and the leaders of the province of Galilee to celebrate with him on his birthday." 
Mark6:22 On the day of the feast, his stepdaughter, the daughter of Herodias, came to honor the king with a beautiful dance, and she flattered him. Her dancing greatly pleased the king and his guests, so he said to the girl, “You can ask me for anything you want and I will give it to you!”" 
Mark6:23 And he repeated it in front of everyone, with a vow to complete his promise to her: “Anything you desire and it will be yours! I’ll even share my kingdom with you!”" 
Mark6:24 She immediately left the room and said to her mother, “What should I ask for?” Her mother answered, “The head of John the Baptizer on a platter!”" 
Mark6:24 She immediately left the room and said to her mother, “What should I ask for?” Her mother answered, “The head of John the Baptizer on a platter!”" 
Mark6:25 So she hurried back to the king and made her request: “I want you to bring me the head of John the Baptizer on a platter—and I want it right now!” 
Mark6:25 So she hurried back to the king and made her request: “I want you to bring me the head of John the Baptizer on a platter—and I want it right now!” 
Mark6:26 Deeply grieved, the king regretted his promise to her, but since he had made his vow in front of all his honored guests, he couldn’t deny her request." 
Mark6:27 So without delay the king ordered an executioner to bring John’s head, and he went and beheaded John in prison." 
Mark6:27 So without delay the king ordered an executioner to bring John’s head, and he went and beheaded John in prison." 
Mark6:28 He brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl brought it to her mother." 
Mark6:29 When John’s followers heard what had happened, they came and removed his body and laid it in a tomb." 
Mark6:29 When John’s followers heard what had happened, they came and removed his body and laid it in a tomb." 
Mark6:30 The apostles returned from their mission and gathered around Jesus and told him everything they had done and taught. 
Mark6:31 There was such a swirl of activity around Jesus, with so many people coming and going, that they were unable to even eat a meal. So Jesus said to his disciples, “Come, let’s take a break and find a secluded place where you can rest a while.”" 
Mark6:32 They slipped away and left by sailboat for a deserted spot. 
Mark6:33 But many of the people saw them leaving and realized where they were headed, so they took off running along the shore. Then people from the surrounding towns joined them in the chase, and a large crowd got there ahead of them." 
Mark6:34 By the time Jesus came ashore, a massive crowd was waiting. At the sight of them, his heart was filled with compassion, because they seemed like wandering sheep who had no shepherd. So he taught them many wonderful things." 
Mark6:35 Late that afternoon, his disciples said, “It’s getting really late and we’re here in this remote place with nothing to eat." 
Mark6:36 You should send the crowds away so they can go into the surrounding villages and buy food.” 
Mark6:37 But he answered them, “You give them something to eat.” “Are you sure?” they replied. “You really want us to go buy them supper? It would cost a small fortune to feed all these thousands of hungry people.”" 
Mark6:38 “How many loaves of bread do you have?” he asked. “Go and see.” After they had looked around, they came back and said, “Five—plus a couple of fish.”" 
Mark6:39 Then he instructed them to organize the crowd and have them sit down in groups on the grass. 
Mark6:40 So they had them sit down in groups of hundreds and fifties. 
Mark6:41 Then Jesus took the five loaves and two fish, gazed into heaven, and gave thanks to God. He broke the bread and the two fish and distributed them to his disciples to serve the people— and the food was multiplied in front of their eyes!" 
Mark6:42 Everyone had plenty to eat and was fully satisfied. 
Mark6:43 Then the twelve disciples picked up what remained, and each of them ended up with a basket full of leftovers!" 
Mark6:44 Altogether, five thousand families were fed that day!" 
Mark6:45 After everyone had their meal, Jesus instructed his disciples to get back into the boat and go on ahead of him and sail to the other side to Bethsaida." 
Mark6:46 So he dispersed the crowd, said good-bye to his disciples, then slipped away to pray on the mountain." 
Mark6:47 As night fell, the boat was in the middle of the lake and Jesus was alone on land." 
Mark6:48 The wind was against the disciples and he could see that they were straining at the oars, trying to make headway. When it was almost morning, Jesus came to them, walking on the surface of the water, and he started to pass by them." 
Mark6:49 When they all saw him walking on the waves, they thought he was a ghost and screamed out in terror. But he said to them at once, “Don’t yield to fear. Have courage. It’s really me—I Am!”" 
Mark6:50  
Mark6:51 Then he came closer and climbed into the boat with them, and immediately the stormy wind became still. They were completely and utterly overwhelmed with astonishment." 
Mark6:52 Their doubting hearts had not grasped his authority and power over all things in spite of just having witnessed the miraculous feeding. 
Mark6:53 They made landfall at Gennesaret and anchored there. 
Mark6:54 The moment they got out of the boat, everyone recognized that it was Jesus, the healer!" 
Mark6:55 So they ran throughout the region, telling the people, “Bring all the sick—even those too sick to walk and bring them on mats!”" 
Mark6:56 Wherever he went, in the countryside, villages, or towns, they placed the sick on mats in the streets or in public places and begged him, saying, “Just let us touch the tassel of your prayer shawl!” And all who touched him were instantly healed!" 
Mark7:1 One day, the Pharisees and certain religious scholars came from Jerusalem and gathered around Jesus." 
Mark7:2 They were shocked to find that some of Jesus’ disciples ate bread without first observing the Jewish ritual of hand washing before eating their meal. 
Mark7:3 (For the Pharisees, like all other Jews, will not eat without first performing a ritual of pouring water over their cupped hands to keep the tradition of the elders." 
Mark7:4 Similarly, when returning from the marketplace, they ceremonially wash themselves before eating. They also observed many other traditions, such as ceremonially washing cups, pitchers, and kettles.)" 
Mark7:5 So the Pharisees and religious scholars asked Jesus, “Why don’t your disciples live according to the age-old traditions passed down by our elders? They should first ceremonially wash their hands before eating.”" 
Mark7:6 Jesus replied, “You are hypocrites! How accurately did Isaiah prophesy about you phonies when he said: ‘These people honor me with their words while their hearts run far away from me!" 
Mark7:7 Their worship is nothing more than a charade! For they continue to insist that their man-made traditions are equal to the instructions of God.’ 
Mark7:8 “You abandon God’s commandments just to keep men’s rituals, such as ceremonially washing utensils, cups, and other things.”" 
Mark7:9 Then he added, “How skillful you’ve become in rejecting God’s law in order to maintain your man-made set of rules." 
Mark7:10 For example, Moses taught us: ‘Honor your father and mother,’ and, ‘Whoever insults or mistreats his father or mother must be put to death.’" 
Mark7:11 “But your made-up rules allow a person to say to his parents, ‘I’ve decided to take the support you were counting on from me and make it my holy offering to God, and that will be your blessing instead.’" 
Mark7:12 How convenient! The rules you teach exempt him from providing for his aged parents. 
Mark7:13 Do you really think God will honor your traditions passed down to others, making up rules that nullify God’s Word? And you’re doing many other similar things.”" 
Mark7:14 Then Jesus called the crowd together again, saying, “Hear my words, all of you, and take them to heart." 
Mark7:15 What truly contaminates a person is not what he puts into his body, but what comes out. That’s what makes a person defiled.”" 
Mark7:16  
Mark7:17 When Jesus went back home and away from the crowd, his disciples acknowledged that they didn’t understand the meaning of the parable and asked him to explain it." 
Mark7:18 He answered them, “Are you as dull as the rest? Don’t you understand that you are not defiled by what you eat?" 
Mark7:19 For the food you swallow doesn’t enter your heart, but goes into your stomach, only to pass out into the sewer.” (This means all foods are clean.)" 
Mark7:20 He added, “Words and deeds pollute a person, not food." 
Mark7:21 Evil originates from inside a person. Coming out of a human heart are evil schemes, sexual immorality, theft, murder," 
Mark7:22 adultery, greed, wickedness, treachery, debauchery, jealousy, slander, arrogance, and recklessness." 
Mark7:23 All these corrupt things emerge from within and constantly defile a person.” 
Mark7:24 Jesus set out from there to go into the non-Jewish region of Tyre. He intended to slip into a house unnoticed, but people found out that he was there." 
Mark7:25 But when a woman whose daughter had a demon spirit heard he was there, she came and threw herself down at his feet." 
Mark7:26 She was not Jewish, but a foreigner, born in the part of Syria known as Phoenicia. She begged him repeatedly to cast the demon out of her daughter." 
Mark7:27 Finally he said to her, “First let my children be fed and satisfied, for it isn’t fair to take the children’s bread and throw it to the little dogs.”" 
Mark7:28 She answered, “How true that is, Lord. But even puppies under the family table are allowed to eat the little children’s crumbs.”" 
Mark7:29 Then Jesus said to her, “That’s a good reply! Now, because you said this, you may go. The demon has permanently left your daughter.”" 
Mark7:30 And when she returned home, she found her daughter resting quietly on the couch, completely set free from the demon!" 
Mark7:31 After this, Jesus left the coastland of Tyre and came through Sidon on his way to Lake Galilee and over into regions of Syria." 
Mark7:32 Some people brought to him a deaf man with a severe speech impediment. They pleaded with Jesus to place his hands on him and heal him. 
Mark7:33 So Jesus led him away from the crowd to a private spot. Then he stuck his fingers into the man’s ears and placed some of his saliva on the man’s tongue. 
Mark7:34 Then he gazed into heaven, sighed deeply, and spoke to the man’s ears and tongue, “Ethpathakh,” which is Aramaic for “Open up, now!”" 
Mark7:35 At once the man’s ears opened and he could hear perfectly, and his tongue was untied and he began to speak normally." 
Mark7:36 Jesus ordered everyone to keep this miracle a secret, but the more he told them not to, the more the news spread!" 
Mark7:37 The people were absolutely beside themselves and astonished beyond measure. And they began to declare, “Everything he does is wonderful! He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak!”" 
Mark8:1 During those days, another massive crowd gathered to hear Jesus, and again, there was no food and the people were hungry. So Jesus called his disciples to come near him and said to them," 
Mark8:2 “My heart goes out to this crowd, for they’ve already been here with me for three days with nothing to eat." 
Mark8:3 I’m concerned that if I send them home hungry, some may faint along the way, for many have come a long, long way just to be with me.”" 
Mark8:4 His disciples replied, “But could anyone possibly get enough food to satisfy a crowd this size out here in this isolated place?”" 
Mark8:5 He asked them, “How many loaves of flatbread do you have?” “Seven,” they replied." 
Mark8:6 Jesus instructed the crowd to sit down on the grass. After he took the seven loaves, he gave thanks to God, broke them, and started handing them to his disciples. They kept distributing the bread until they had served the entire crowd." 
Mark8:7 They also had a few small fish, and after giving thanks for these, Jesus had his disciples serve them to the crowd." 
Mark8:8 Everyone ate until they were satisfied. Then the disciples gathered up the broken pieces and filled seven large baskets with the leftovers. 
Mark8:9 About four thousand people ate what had been multiplied! Then he dismissed the crowd. 
Mark8:10 Afterward, Jesus got into a boat and sailed to the vicinity of Dalmanutha." 
Mark8:11 As soon as Jesus landed, he was confronted by the Pharisees, who argued with Jesus and tested him. They demanded that he give them a miraculous sign from heaven." 
Mark8:12 With a deep sigh from his spirit, he said, “What drives this generation to clamor for a sign? Listen to the truth: there will absolutely be no sign given to this generation!”" 
Mark8:13 Then he turned and left them, got back into the boat, and crossed over to the opposite shore." 
Mark8:14 Now, the disciples had forgotten to take bread with them, except for one loaf of flatbread." 
Mark8:15 And as they were sailing across the lake, Jesus repeatedly warned them, “Be on your guard against the yeast inside of the Pharisees and the yeast inside of Herod!”" 
Mark8:16 But the disciples had no clue what Jesus was talking about, so they began to discuss it among themselves, saying, “Is he saying this because we forgot to bring bread?”" 
Mark8:17 Knowing what they were thinking, Jesus said to them, “Why all this fussing over forgetting to bring bread? Do you still not see or understand what I say to you? Are your hearts still hard?" 
Mark8:18 You have good eyes, yet you still don’t see, and you have good ears, yet you still don’t hear, neither do you remember." 
Mark8:19 When I multiplied the bread to feed more than five thousand people, how many baskets full of leftovers did you gather afterward?” “Twelve,” they replied." 
Mark8:20 “And when I multiplied food to feed over four thousand, how many large baskets full of leftovers did you gather afterwards?” “Seven,” they replied." 
Mark8:21 “Then how is it that you still don’t get it?” 
Mark8:22 When they arrived at Bethsaida, some people brought a blind man to Jesus, begging him to touch him and heal him." 
Mark8:23 So Jesus led him, as his sighted guide, outside the village. He placed his saliva on the man’s eyes and covered them with his hands. Then he asked him, “Now do you see anything?”" 
Mark8:24 “Yes,” he said. “My sight is coming back! I’m beginning to see people, but they look like trees—walking trees.”" 
Mark8:25 Jesus put his hands over the man’s eyes a second time and made him look up. The man opened his eyes wide and he could see everything perfectly. His eyesight was completely restored! 
Mark8:26 Then Jesus sent him home with these instructions: “Go home, but don’t tell anyone what happened, not even the people of your own village.”" 
Mark8:27 Then Jesus and his disciples walked to the villages near Caesarea Philippi. On the way, he posed this question to his disciples: “Who do the people say that I am?”" 
Mark8:28 They replied, “Some say John the Baptizer, others say Elijah the prophet, and still others say you must be one of the prophets.”" 
Mark8:28 They replied, “Some say John the Baptizer, others say Elijah the prophet, and still others say you must be one of the prophets.”" 
Mark8:29 He asked them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter spoke up, saying, “You are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God!”" 
Mark8:30 Then he warned them not to breathe a word of this to anyone. 
Mark8:31 From then on, Jesus began to tell his disciples that he, the Son of Man, was destined to go to Jerusalem and suffer great injustice from the elders, leading priests, and religious scholars. He also explained that he would be killed and three days later be raised to life again." 
Mark8:32 Jesus opened his heart and spoke freely with his disciples, explaining all these things to them. Then Peter took him aside and rebuked him." 
Mark8:33 But Jesus turned around, and glancing at all of the other disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, “Get out of my sight, Satan! For your heart is not set on God’s plan but man’s!”" 
Mark8:34 Jesus had his disciples and the crowd gather around him. And he said to them: “If you truly want to follow me, you should at once completely disown your own life. And you must be willing to share my cross and experience it as your own, as you continually surrender to my ways." 
Mark8:35 For if you let your life go for my sake and for the sake of the gospel, you will continually experience true life. But if you choose to keep your life for yourself, you will forfeit what you try to keep." 
Mark8:36 For what use is it to gain all the wealth and power of this world, with everything it could offer you, at the cost of your own life?" 
Mark8:37 And what could be more valuable to you than your own soul? 
Mark8:38 If you are ashamed of me and my words while living among sinful and faithless people, then I, the Son of Man, will also be ashamed of you when I make my appearance with my holy messengers in the glorious splendor of my Father!”" 
Mark9:1 Jesus said to them, “I tell you the truth, there are some standing here now who won’t experience death until they see God’s kingdom realm manifest with power!”" 
Mark9:2 After six days, Jesus took Peter and the two brothers, Jacob and John, and hiked up a high mountain to be alone. And Jesus’ appearance was dramatically altered, for he was transfigured before their very eyes!" 
Mark9:2 After six days, Jesus took Peter and the two brothers, Jacob and John, and hiked up a high mountain to be alone. And Jesus’ appearance was dramatically altered, for he was transfigured before their very eyes!" 
Mark9:3 His clothing sparkled and became glistening white—whiter than any bleach in the world could make them. 
Mark9:4 Then suddenly, right in front of them, Moses and Elijah appeared, and they spoke with Jesus." 
Mark9:5 Peter blurted out, “Good Teacher, this is so amazing to see the three of you together! Why don’t we stay here and set up three shelters: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah?”" 
Mark9:6 (For all of the disciples were in total fear, and Peter didn’t have a clue what to say.)" 
Mark9:7 Just then, a radiant cloud began to spread over them, enveloping them all. And God’s voice suddenly spoke from the cloud, saying, “This is my beloved Son and you need to always listen to him!”" 
Mark9:8 Then suddenly, as they looked around, they saw only Jesus with them, for Moses and Elijah had faded away." 
Mark9:9 As they all hiked down the mountain together, Jesus ordered them, “Don’t tell anyone of what you just witnessed. Wait until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.”" 
Mark9:10 So they kept it to themselves, puzzled over what Jesus meant about rising from the dead." 
Mark9:11 Then they asked him, “Why do the religious scholars insist that Elijah must come before the Messiah?”" 
Mark9:12 He answered them, “They’re right. Elijah must come first to put everything in order. And what about all that is written about the Son of Man? It is true that he must endure many sufferings and be rejected." 
Mark9:13 So Elijah has already appeared, just as it was prophesied, and they did to him whatever they pleased.”" 
Mark9:14 Now when they came down the mountain to the other nine disciples, they noticed a large crowd of people gathered around them, with the religious scholars arguing with them." 
Mark9:15 The crowd was astonished to see Jesus himself walking toward them, so they immediately ran to welcome him." 
Mark9:16 “What are you arguing about with the religious scholars?” he asked them. 
Mark9:17 A man spoke up out of the crowd. “Teacher,” he said, “I have a son possessed by a demon that makes him mute. I brought him here to you, Jesus." 
Mark9:18 Whenever the demon takes control of him, it knocks him down, and he foams at the mouth and gnashes his teeth, and his body becomes stiff as a board. I brought him to your disciples, hoping they could deliver him, but they were not able to do it.”" 
Mark9:19 Jesus said to the crowd, “Why are you such a faithless people? How much longer must I remain with you and put up with your unbelief? Now, bring the boy to me.”" 
Mark9:20 So they brought him to Jesus. As soon as the demon saw him, it threw the boy into convulsions. He fell to the ground, rolling around and foaming at the mouth." 
Mark9:21 Jesus turned to the father and asked, “How long has your son been tormented like this?” “Since childhood,” he replied." 
Mark9:22 “It tries over and over to kill him by throwing him into fire or into the water. But please, if you’re able to do something, anything—have compassion on us and help us!”" 
Mark9:23 Jesus said to him, “What do you mean ‘if’? If you are able to believe, all things are possible to the believer.”" 
Mark9:24 When he heard this, the boy’s father cried out with tears, saying, “I do believe, Lord; help my little faith!”" 
Mark9:25 Now when Jesus saw that the crowd was quickly growing larger, he commanded the demon, saying, “Deaf and mute spirit, I command you to come out of him and never enter him again!”" 
Mark9:26 The demon shrieked and threw the boy into terrible seizures and finally came out of him! As the boy lay there, looking like a corpse, everyone thought he was dead." 
Mark9:27 But Jesus stooped down, gently took his hand, and raised him up to his feet, and he stood there completely set free!" 
Mark9:28 Afterwards, when Jesus arrived at the house, his disciples asked him in private, “Why couldn’t we cast out the demon?”" 
Mark9:29 He answered them, “This type of powerful spirit can only be cast out by fasting and prayer.”" 
Mark9:30 They went on from there and walked through the region of Galilee. Jesus didn’t want the people to know he was there, because he wanted to teach his disciples in private." 
Mark9:31 He said to them, “The Son of Man is destined to be betrayed and turned over to those who will execute him. But after three days he will rise again.”" 
Mark9:32 But the disciples didn’t have a clue what he meant and were too embarrassed to ask him to explain it. 
Mark9:33 Then they came to Capernaum. And as soon as Jesus was inside the house, he asked his disciples, “What were you arguing about on the way here?”" 
Mark9:34 No one said a word, because they had been arguing about which one of them was the greatest." 
Mark9:35 Jesus sat down, called the twelve disciples to come around him, and said to them, “If anyone wants to be first, he must be content to be last and become a servant to all.”" 
Mark9:36 Then he had a child come and stand among them. He wrapped the child in his arms and said to them," 
Mark9:37 “Whoever welcomes a little child in my name welcomes me. And whoever welcomes me welcomes not only me, but the one who sent me.”" 
Mark9:38 John spoke up and said, “Teacher, we noticed someone was using your name to cast out demons, so we tried to stop him because he wasn’t one of our group.”" 
Mark9:38 John spoke up and said, “Teacher, we noticed someone was using your name to cast out demons, so we tried to stop him because he wasn’t one of our group.”" 
Mark9:39 “Don’t stop him!” Jesus replied. “For the one who does miracles in the power of my name proves he is not my enemy. 
Mark9:40 And whoever is not against us is for us. 
Mark9:41 Listen to the truth that I speak: Whoever gives you a cup of water because you carry the name of Christ will never lose his reward. 
Mark9:42 But if anyone abuses one of these little ones who believe in me, it would be better for him to have a heavy boulder tied around his neck and be thrown into the sea than to face the punishment he deserves!" 
Mark9:43 “If your hand entices you to sin, let it go limp and useless! For it is better for you to enter into life maimed than to have your entire body thrown into hell, the place of unquenchable fire." 
Mark9:44 This is where the maggots never die and the fire never goes out. 
Mark9:45 And if your foot leads you into sin, cut it off! For it is better to enter life crawling than to have both feet and be flung into hell." 
Mark9:46 This is where the maggots never die and the fire never goes out. 
Mark9:47 And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out! For it is better to enter into life with one eye than to be thrown into hell with two." 
Mark9:48 This is where the maggots never die and the fire never goes out! 
Mark9:49 “Everyone will pass through the fire and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt. 
Mark9:50 Salt is excellent for seasoning. But if salt becomes tasteless, how can its flavor ever be restored? Your lives, like salt, are to season and preserve. So don’t lose your flavor, and preserve the peace in your union with one another.”" 
Mark10:1 Then Jesus left the region and went into the district of Judea, across from the Jordan River, and again, massive crowds flocked to him, and Jesus, as was his custom, began to teach the people." 
Mark10:1 Then Jesus left the region and went into the district of Judea, across from the Jordan River, and again, massive crowds flocked to him, and Jesus, as was his custom, began to teach the people." 
Mark10:2 At one point, some of the Pharisees came, seeking to entrap him with a question. “Tell us,” they asked, “is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?”" 
Mark10:3 He answered them, “What did Moses command you?”" 
Mark10:4 They replied, “Moses permitted us to write a certificate of separation that would be valid to complete a divorce.”" 
Mark10:5 Jesus said, “Yes, Moses wrote this exception for you because you are hardhearted." 
Mark10:6 But from the beginning God created male and female. 
Mark10:7 For this reason a man will leave his parents and be wedded to his wife. 
Mark10:8 And the husband and wife will be joined as one flesh, and after that they no longer exist as two, but one flesh." 
Mark10:9 So there you have it. What God has joined together, no one has the right to split apart.”" 
Mark10:10 Once indoors, his disciples asked him to explain it to them again." 
Mark10:11 So he said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her." 
Mark10:12 And if the wife divorces her husband and marries another, she also commits adultery.”" 
Mark10:13 The parents kept bringing their little children to Jesus so that he would lay his hands on them and bless them. But the disciples kept rebuking and scolding the people for doing it. 
Mark10:14 When Jesus saw what was happening, he became indignant with his disciples and said to them, “Let all the little children come to me and never hinder them! Don’t you know that God’s kingdom exists for such as these?" 
Mark10:15 Listen to the truth I speak: Whoever does not open their arms to receive God’s kingdom like a teachable child will never enter it.” 
Mark10:16 Then he embraced each child, and laying his hands on them, he lovingly blessed each one." 
Mark10:17 As Jesus started on his way, a man came running up to him. Kneeling down in front of him, he cried out, “Good Teacher, what one thing am I required to do to gain eternal life?”" 
Mark10:18 Jesus responded, “Why do you call me good? Only God is truly good." 
Mark10:19 You already know the commandments: ‘Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give a false testimony, do not cheat, and honor your father and mother.’ ”" 
Mark10:20 The man said to Jesus, “Teacher, I have carefully obeyed these laws since my youth.”" 
Mark10:21 Jesus fixed his gaze upon the man, with tender love, and said to him, “Yet there is still one thing in you lacking. Go, sell all that you have and give the money to the poor. Then all of your treasure will be in heaven. After you’ve done this, come back and walk with me.”" 
Mark10:22 Completely shocked by Jesus’ answer, he turned and walked away very sad, for he was extremely rich." 
Mark10:23 Jesus looked at the faces of his disciples and said, “How hard it is for the wealthy to enter into God’s kingdom realm.”" 
Mark10:24 The disciples were startled when they heard this. But Jesus again said to them, “Children, it is next to impossible for those who trust in their riches to find their way into God’s kingdom." 
Mark10:25 It is easier to stuff a rope through the eye of a needle than for a wealthy person to enter into God’s kingdom.” 
Mark10:26 But this left them all the more astonished, and they whispered to one another, “Then who could ever be saved?”" 
Mark10:27 Jesus looked at them and replied, “With people it is impossible, but not with God—God makes all things possible!”" 
Mark10:28 Then Peter spoke up and said, “Can’t you see that we’ve left everything we had to cling to you?”" 
Mark10:29 “Listen to my words,” Jesus said. “Anyone who leaves his home behind and chooses me over children, parents, family, and possessions, all for the sake of the gospel," 
Mark10:30 it will come back to him a hundred times as much in this lifetime—homes, family, mothers, brothers, sisters, children, possessions—along with persecutions. And in the age to come, he will inherit eternal life." 
Mark10:31 But many who are considered to be the most important now will be the least important then. And many who are viewed as the least important now will be considered the most important then.” 
Mark10:32 Jesus and his disciples were on the road that went up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was leading them forward. The disciples were filled with wonder and amazement at his bravery, but those following along with them were very afraid. As they approached the city, he took the Twelve aside privately and told them what was going to happen." 
Mark10:33 “I want you to know that we are going to Jerusalem, where the Son of Man will be handed over to the ruling priests and religious scholars and they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Romans." 
Mark10:33 “I want you to know that we are going to Jerusalem, where the Son of Man will be handed over to the ruling priests and religious scholars and they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Romans." 
Mark10:34 And they will mock him, spit in his face, torture him, and kill him, but three days later he will rise again.”" 
Mark10:35 Jacob and John, sons of Zebedee, approached Jesus and said, “Teacher, will you do us a favor?”" 
Mark10:35 Jacob and John, sons of Zebedee, approached Jesus and said, “Teacher, will you do us a favor?”" 
Mark10:36 “What is it?” he asked. 
Mark10:37 “We want to sit next to you when you come into your glory,” they said, “one at your right hand and the other at your left.”" 
Mark10:38 Jesus replied, “You don’t have a clue what you’re asking for! Are you prepared to drink from the cup of suffering that I am about to drink? And are you able to endure the baptism into death that I am about to experience?”" 
Mark10:39 They replied, “Yes, we are able.” Jesus said to them, “You will certainly drink from the cup of my sufferings and be immersed into my death," 
Mark10:40 but to have you sit in the position of highest honor is not mine to decide. It is reserved for those especially prepared to have it.” 
Mark10:41 Now the other ten disciples overheard this, and they became angry and began to criticize Jacob and John." 
Mark10:41 Now the other ten disciples overheard this, and they became angry and began to criticize Jacob and John." 
Mark10:42 Jesus gathered them all together and said to them, “Those recognized as rulers of the people and those who are in top leadership positions rule oppressively over their subjects, but this is not the example you are to follow." 
Mark10:43 You are to lead by a different model. If you want to be the greatest, then live as one called to serve others." 
Mark10:44 The path to promotion comes by having the heart of a bond-slave who serves everyone. 
Mark10:45 For even the Son of Man did not come expecting to be served by everyone, but to serve everyone, and to give his life as the ransom price for the salvation of many.”" 
Mark10:46 When Jesus and his disciples had passed through Jericho, a large crowd joined them. Upon leaving the village, they met a blind beggar sitting on the side of the road named Timai, the son of Timai." 
Mark10:47 When he heard that Jesus from Nazareth was passing by, he began to shout “Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me now in my affliction. Heal me!”" 
Mark10:48 Those in the crowd were indignant and scolded him for making so much of a disturbance, but he kept shouting with all his might, “Son of David, have mercy on me now and heal me!”" 
Mark10:49 Jesus stopped and said, “Call him here.” So they went to the blind man and said, “Have courage! Get up! Jesus is calling for you!”" 
Mark10:50 So he threw off his beggars’ cloak, jumped up, and made his way to Jesus." 
Mark10:51 Jesus said to him, “What do you want me to do for you?” The man replied, “My Master, please, let me see again!”" 
Mark10:52 Jesus responded, “Your faith heals you. Go in peace, with your sight restored.” All at once, the man’s eyes opened and he could see again, and he began at once to follow Jesus, walking down the road with him." 
Mark11:1 Now, as they were approaching Jerusalem, they arrived at the place of the stables near Bethany on the Mount of Olives. Jesus sent two of his disciples ahead" 
Mark11:2 and said to them, “As soon as you enter the village ahead, you will find a donkey’s colt tied there that has never been ridden. Untie it and bring it to me." 
Mark11:3 And if anyone asks, ‘Why are you taking it?’ tell them, ‘The master needs it and will send it back to you soon.’ ”" 
Mark11:4 So they went and found the colt outside in the street, tied to a gate. When they started to untie it," 
Mark11:5 some people standing there said to them, “Why are you untying that colt?”" 
Mark11:6 They answered just as Jesus had told them: “The master needs it, and he will send it back to you soon.” So the bystanders let them go." 
Mark11:7 The disciples brought the colt to Jesus and piled their cloaks and prayer shawls on the young donkey, and Jesus rode upon it." 
Mark11:8 Many people carpeted the road in front of him with their cloaks and prayer shawls, while others gathered palm branches and spread them before him." 
Mark11:9 Jesus rode in the center of the procession, with crowds going before him and behind him. They all shouted in celebration, “Bring the victory! We welcome the one coming with blessings sent from the Lord Yahweh!" 
Mark11:10 Blessings rest on this kingdom he ushers in—the kingdom of our father David! Bring us the victory in the highest realms of heaven!” 
Mark11:11 Jesus rode through the gates of Jerusalem and up to the temple. After looking around at everything, he left for Bethany with the Twelve to spend the night, for it was already late in the day." 
Mark11:12 The next day, as he left Bethany, Jesus was feeling hungry." 
Mark11:13 He noticed a leafy fig tree in the distance, so he walked over to see if there was any fruit on it, but there was none—only leaves (for it wasn’t yet the season for bearing figs)." 
Mark11:14 Jesus spoke to the fig tree, saying, “No one will ever eat fruit from you again!” And the disciples overheard him." 
Mark11:15 When they came into Jerusalem, Jesus went directly into the temple area and overturned all the tables and benches of the merchants who were doing business there. One by one he drove them all out of the temple courts, and they scattered away, including the money changers and those selling doves." 
Mark11:16 And he would not allow them to use the temple courts as a thoroughfare for carrying their merchandise and their furniture. 
Mark11:17 Then he began to teach the people, saying, “Does not the Scripture say, ‘My house will be a house of prayer for all the world to share’? But you have made it a hangout of thieves!”" 
Mark11:18 When the chief priests and religious scholars heard this, they began to hatch a plot as to how they could eliminate Jesus. But they feared him and his influence, because the entire crowd was totally captivated by his teaching." 
Mark11:19 So he and his disciples spent the nights outside the city. 
Mark11:20 In the morning, they passed by the fig tree that Jesus spoke to and it was completely withered from the roots up." 
Mark11:21 Peter remembered and said to him, “Teacher, look! That’s the fig tree you cursed. It’s now all shriveled up and dead.”" 
Mark11:22 Jesus replied, “Let the faith of God be in you!" 
Mark11:23 Listen to the truth I speak to you: Whoever says to this mountain with great faith and does not doubt, ‘Mountain, be lifted up and thrown into the midst of the sea,’ and believes that what he says will happen, it will be done." 
Mark11:24 This is the reason I urge you to boldly believe for whatever you ask for in prayer—be convinced that you have received it and it will be yours. 
Mark11:25 And whenever you stand praying, if you find that you carry something in your heart against another person, release him and forgive him so that your Father in heaven will also release you and forgive you of your faults." 
Mark11:26 But if you will not release forgiveness, don’t expect your Father in heaven to release you from your misdeeds.”" 
Mark11:27 They came again into Jerusalem, and while Jesus was walking in the temple courts, the Jewish rulers—the chief priest, certain religious scholars, and the elders—approached him. They came up to him" 
Mark11:28 and asked, “What right do you have to say and do these things? Who gave you the authority to do all this?”" 
Mark11:29 Jesus replied, “I too have a question to ask you. If you can answer this question, then I will tell you by what power I do all these things." 
Mark11:30 Where did John’s authority to immerse come from? Was it from heaven or from people? Answer me now.” 
Mark11:30 Where did John’s authority to immerse come from? Was it from heaven or from people? Answer me now.” 
Mark11:31 They stepped away and debated among themselves, saying, “How should we answer this? If we say, ‘from heaven,’ he will say to us, ‘Then why didn’t you respond to John and believe what he said?’" 
Mark11:31 They stepped away and debated among themselves, saying, “How should we answer this? If we say, ‘from heaven,’ he will say to us, ‘Then why didn’t you respond to John and believe what he said?’" 
Mark11:32 But if we say, ‘from the people,’ we fear the crowds, for they’re convinced that John was God’s prophet.”" 
Mark11:32 But if we say, ‘from the people,’ we fear the crowds, for they’re convinced that John was God’s prophet.”" 
Mark11:33 So they finally answered, “We don’t know.” “Then neither will I tell you where my power comes from to do these things,” Jesus replied." 
Mark12:1 Then Jesus began to speak to them in parables: “There once was a man who planted a vineyard and put a secure fence around it. He dug a pit for its winepress and erected a watch tower. Then he leased it to tenant-farmers and traveled abroad. 
Mark12:2 When the time of harvest came, he sent one of his servants to the tenants to collect the landowners’ share of the harvest." 
Mark12:3 But the tenants seized him and beat him and sent him back empty-handed. 
Mark12:4 So the owner sent another servant to them. And that one they shamefully humiliated and beat over the head. 
Mark12:5 So he sent another servant, and they brutally killed him. Many more servants were sent, and they were all severely beaten or killed." 
Mark12:6 The owner had only one person left to send—his only son, whom he dearly loved. So he sent him to them, saying, ‘Surely they will restrain themselves and respect my son.’" 
Mark12:7 But the tenants saw their chance and said to one another, ‘This is the heir. Come! Let’s kill him, and then we’ll inherit it all!’" 
Mark12:8 So they violently seized him, killed him, and threw his body over the fence!" 
Mark12:9 So what do you think the owner of the vineyard will do? He will come and put to death those tenants and give his vineyard to others. 
Mark12:10 Haven’t you read what the psalmist said? The stone the builders examined and rejected has become the cornerstone, the most important stone of all?" 
Mark12:11 This was the Lord’s plan— and he is wonderful for our eyes to behold!” 
Mark12:12 Now, the chief priests, religious scholars, and leaders realized that Jesus’ parable was aimed at them. They had hoped to arrest him then and there, but they feared the reaction of the crowd, so they left him alone and went away." 
Mark12:13 Then they sent a delegation of Pharisees, together with some staunch supporters of Herod, to entrap Jesus with his own words." 
Mark12:14 So they approached him and said, “Teacher, we know that you’re an honest man of integrity and you teach us the truth of God’s ways. We can clearly see that you’re not one who speaks only to win the people’s favor, because you speak the truth without regard to the consequences. So tell us, then, what you think. Is it proper for us to pay taxes to Caesar or not?”" 
Mark12:15 Jesus saw through their hypocrisy and said to them, “Why are you testing me? Show me one of the Roman coins.”" 
Mark12:16 They brought him a silver coin used to pay the tax. “Now, tell me,” Jesus said, “whose head is on this coin and whose inscription is stamped on it?” “Caesar’s,” they replied." 
Mark12:17 Jesus said, “ Precisely. The coin bears the image of the emperor Caesar, so you should pay the emperor his portion. But because you bear the image of God, you must give to God all that belongs to him.” And they were utterly stunned by Jesus’ words." 
Mark12:18 Some of the Sadducees, a religious group that denied there was a resurrection of the dead, came to ask Jesus this question:" 
Mark12:19 “Teacher, the law of Moses teaches that if a man dies before he has children, his brother should marry the widow and raise up children for his brother’s family line." 
Mark12:20 Now, there was a family with seven brothers. The oldest got married but soon died, and he had no children." 
Mark12:21 The second brother married his oldest brother’s widow, and he also died without any children, and the third also." 
Mark12:22 This repeated down to the seventh brother, none of whom had children. Finally, the woman died." 
Mark12:23 So here’s our dilemma: Which of the seven brothers will be the woman’s husband when she’s resurrected from the dead, since they all were once married to her?”" 
Mark12:24 Jesus answered them, “You are mistaken because your hearts are not filled with the revelation of the Scriptures or the power of God." 
Mark12:25 For when they rise from the dead, men and women will not marry, just like the angels of heaven don’t marry." 
Mark12:26 Now, concerning the resurrection, haven’t you read in the Torah what God said to Moses at the burning bush? ‘I AM the living God, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’?" 
Mark12:27 God is not God of the dead, but of the living, and you are all badly mistaken!”" 
Mark12:28 Now a certain religious scholar overheard them debating. When he saw how beautifully Jesus answered all their questions, he posed one of his own, and asked him, “Teacher, which commandment is the greatest of all?”" 
Mark12:29 Jesus answered him, “The most important of all the commandments is this: ‘The Lord Yahweh, our God, is one!’" 
Mark12:30 You are to love the Lord Yahweh, your God, with a passionate heart, from the depths of your soul, with your every thought, and with all your strength. This is the great and supreme commandment." 
Mark12:31 And the second is this: ‘You must love your neighbor in the same way you love yourself.’ You will never find a greater commandment than these.” 
Mark12:32 The religious scholar replied, “Yes, that’s true, Teacher. You spoke beautifully when you said that God is one, and there is no one else besides him." 
Mark12:33 And there is something more important to God than all the sacrifices and burnt offerings: it’s the commandment to constantly love God with every passion of your heart, with your every thought, and with all your strength—and to love your neighbor in the same way as you love yourself.”" 
Mark12:34 When Jesus noticed how thoughtfully and sincerely the man answered, he said to him, “You’re not far from the reality of God’s kingdom.” After that, no one dared to question him again." 
Mark12:35 While Jesus was teaching in the courts of the temple, he posed a question to those listening: “Why do the religious scholars say that the Messiah is David’s son?" 
Mark12:36 Yet it was David, inspired by the Holy Spirit, who sang: Yahweh said to my Lord, ‘Sit near me in the place of authority until I subdue all your enemies under Your feet.’" 
Mark12:37 Since David calls him Lord, how can he be his son?” The large crowd listened to him with delight." 
Mark12:38 Jesus also taught the people, “Beware of the religious scholars. They love to parade around in their clergy robes and be greeted with respect on the street." 
Mark12:39 They crave to be made the leaders of synagogue councils, and they push their way to the head table at banquets." 
Mark12:40 For appearance’s sake, they will pray long religious prayers at the homes of widows for an offering, cheating them out of their very livelihood. Beware of them all, for they will one day be stripped of honor, and the judgment they receive will be severe.”" 
Mark12:41 Then he sat down near the offering box, watching all the people dropping in their coins. Many of the rich would put in very large sums," 
Mark12:42 but a destitute widow walked up and dropped in two small copper coins, worth less than a penny." 
Mark12:43 Jesus called his disciples to gather around and then said to them, “I tell you the truth, this poor widow has given a larger offering than any of the wealthy." 
Mark12:44 For the rich only gave out of their surplus, but she sacrificed out of her poverty and gave to God all that she had to live on, which was everything she had.”" 
Mark13:1 As Jesus was leaving the temple courts, one of his disciples came to him and said, “Teacher, look at these magnificent buildings! And what tremendous stones were used to build all this!”" 
Mark13:2 Jesus turned to them and said, “Take a good look at all these enormous buildings, for I’m telling you, there will not be one stone left upon another. It will all be leveled!”" 
Mark13:3 Later, while Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, overlooking the temple, his disciples, Peter, Jacob, John, and Andrew, came to him privately where he was sitting and said," 
Mark13:3 Later, while Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, overlooking the temple, his disciples, Peter, Jacob, John, and Andrew, came to him privately where he was sitting and said," 
Mark13:4 “Tell us, when will these things happen? And what supernatural sign should we expect to signal your coming and the completion of this age?”" 
Mark13:5 Jesus answered, “At that time deception will run rampant. So beware that you’re not fooled!" 
Mark13:6 For many will appear on the scene claiming my authority or saying about themselves, ‘I am God’s Anointed,’ and they will lead many astray." 
Mark13:7 You will hear rumors of wars nearby, with more rumors of wars to come. Make sure that you are not thrown into a panic or give in to your fears, for these things are destined to happen. Prepare for it, but still the end is not yet." 
Mark13:8 For nations will go to war against each other and kingdoms will clash with kingdoms. And there will be terrible earthquakes in place after place—seismic events of epic proportion. And there will be famines and riots. This is how the first contractions and birth pains of the new age will begin.” 
Mark13:9 “Be on your guard! For they will hand you over to the ruling councils, and you will be beaten in public gatherings. And you will stand trial before kings and high-ranking governmental leaders as an opportunity to testify to them on my behalf." 
Mark13:10 But prior to the end of the age, the hope of the gospel must first be preached to all nations." 
Mark13:11 “So when they put you under arrest and hand you over for trial, don’t even give one thought about what you will say. Simply speak what the Holy Spirit gives you at that very moment. And realize that it won’t be you speaking but the Holy Spirit speaking through you." 
Mark13:12 Brothers will betray each other unto death—even a father his child. Children will rise up to take a stand against their parents and have them put to death. 
Mark13:13 Expect to be hated by all because of your allegiance to my name. But determine to be faithful to the end and you will be saved.” 
Mark13:14 “When you witness what Daniel prophesied, ‘the disgusting destroyer,’ standing where it must not be [Let the reader learn what it means], then those in the land of Judah must escape to higher ground." 
Mark13:15 On that day, if you happen to be outside, don’t go back inside to gather your belongings." 
Mark13:16 And if you’re working out in the field, don’t run back home to get a coat." 
Mark13:17 It will be especially hard for pregnant women and for those nursing their babies when those days come. 
Mark13:18 So pray that your escape will not be during the winter months. 
Mark13:19 For this will be a time of great misery beyond the magnitude of anything the world has ever seen from the beginning of time or ever will see. 
Mark13:20 Unless God limits those days, no one would escape. But because of his love for his chosen ones, he will shorten that time of trouble." 
Mark13:21 “And if you hear reports from people, saying, ‘Look, the Messiah is over here,’ or, ‘The Messiah is over there!’ don’t believe it." 
Mark13:22 For there will be imposters falsely claiming to be God’s ‘Anointed One.’ And false prophets will arise to perform miracle signs, and if it were possible, they would cause God’s chosen ones to wander off the right track." 
Mark13:23 Be alert, for I prophesy all this will happen!”" 
Mark13:24 “This is what will take place after that suffering: The sun will be darkened and the moon will reflect no light. 
Mark13:25 The stars will be falling from the sky and all the cosmic powers will be shaken. 
Mark13:26 “Then they will see the Son of Man appearing in the midst of clouds and revealed with mighty power and great glory. 
Mark13:27 At that time he will send his messengers to gather together his beloved chosen ones from every direction—from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven!” 
Mark13:28 “Now, learn the lesson from the parable of the fig tree. When spring arrives, and it sends out its tender branches and sprouts leaves, you know that summer is near." 
Mark13:29 So also, when you observe all these things progressively taking place, you will know that he is near, even at the door!" 
Mark13:30 I assure you, this family will not pass away until all I have spoken comes to pass." 
Mark13:31 The earth and sky will wear out and fade away before one word I speak loses its power or fails to accomplish its purpose.” 
Mark13:32 “Concerning that day and exact hour, no one knows when it will arrive, not the angels of heaven, not even the Son—only the Father knows." 
Mark13:33 This is why you must be waiting, watching and praying, because no one knows when that season of time will come.”" 
Mark13:34 “For those days can be compared to a man who was about to leave on a journey, but before leaving he placed his servants in charge and gave each one work to do while he was away. Then he commanded the watchman to be on guard at all times." 
Mark13:35 So I say to you, keep awake and alert—for you have no idea when the master of the house will return; in the evening, at midnight, at four o’clock in the morning, or at dawn." 
Mark13:36 Be alert, for he’s coming suddenly and may find you sleeping!" 
Mark13:37 And what I say to the four of you, I say to everyone—be awake at all times!”" 
Mark14:1 Two days before the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the leading priests and religious scholars were committed to finding a way to secretly arrest Jesus and have him executed." 
Mark14:2 They agreed that their plot could not succeed if they carried it out during the days of the feast, for they said, “There could be a riot among the people.”" 
Mark14:3 Now Jesus was in Bethany, in the home of Simon, a man Jesus had healed of leprosy. And as he was reclining at the table, a woman came into the house, with an alabaster flask filled with the highest quality of fragrant and expensive oil. She came to Jesus, and with a gesture of extreme devotion, she broke the flask and poured out the precious oil over his head." 
Mark14:4 But some were highly indignant when they saw this, and they complained to one another, saying, “What a total waste!" 
Mark14:5 It could have been sold for a great sum, and the money could have benefited the poor.” So they scolded her harshly." 
Mark14:6 Jesus said to them, “Leave her alone! Why are you so critical of this woman? She has honored me with this beautiful act of kindness." 
Mark14:7 You will always have the poor, whom you can help whenever you want, but you will not always have me." 
Mark14:8 When she poured the fragrant oil over me, she was preparing my body in advance of my burial. She has done all that she could to honor me." 
Mark14:9 I promise you that as this wonderful gospel spreads all over the world, the story of her lavish devotion to me will be mentioned in memory of her.”" 
Mark14:10 One of the twelve apostles, Judas Iscariot, went to the leading priests to inform them of his willingness to betray Jesus into their hands." 
Mark14:11 They were delighted to hear this and agreed to pay him for it. So immediately Judas began to look for the right opportunity to betray him. 
Mark14:12 On the first day of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover Lamb is sacrificed, Jesus’ disciples asked him, “Where would you like us to prepare the Passover meal for you?”" 
Mark14:13 So he sent two of his disciples ahead into Jerusalem with these instructions: “Make your way into the city and watch for a man carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him," 
Mark14:14 and say to the owner of whatever house he enters, ‘The Teacher wants to ask you: “Do you have my room ready where I can eat the Passover meal with my disciples?” ’" 
Mark14:15 And he will show you a large upstairs room ready and with a table set. Make preparations for us there.” 
Mark14:16 So they went into the city and found everything to be exactly like Jesus had prophesied, and they prepared for him the Passover meal." 
Mark14:17 And when evening came, he entered the house and went upstairs with his twelve disciples." 
Mark14:18 Over dinner, while they were reclining around the table, Jesus said, “Listen to the truth: One of you eating here with me is about to betray me.”" 
Mark14:19 Feeling deeply troubled by these words, one after another asked him, “Is it I?”" 
Mark14:20 He answered, “It is one of you twelve who has shared meals with me as an intimate friend." 
Mark14:21 All that was prophesied of me, the Son of Man, is destined to soon take place, but it will be disastrous for the one who betrays the Son of Man. It would be far better for him if he had never been born!”" 
Mark14:22 As they were dining, Jesus took the bread and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to his disciples. He said to them, “Receive this; it is my body.”" 
Mark14:23 Then taking the cup of wine and giving thanks to the Father, he declared the new covenant with them. And as each one drank from the cup," 
Mark14:24 he said to them, “This is my blood, which seals the new covenant poured out for many." 
Mark14:25 I tell you the truth, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the day comes when we drink it together in the kingdom feast of my Father.”" 
Mark14:26 Then they sang a psalm and afterwards left for the Mount of Olives. 
Mark14:27 Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away and desert me. This will fulfill the prophecy of the Scripture that says: I will strike down the shepherd and all the sheep will scatter." 
Mark14:28 “But after I am risen, I will go ahead of you to Galilee.”" 
Mark14:29 Then Peter spoke up and said, “Even if all the rest lose their faith and fall away, I will still be beside you!”" 
Mark14:30 Jesus said, “Mark my words, Peter. This very night, before the rooster crows twice a few hours from now, you will deny that you know me three times.”" 
Mark14:31 But Peter was insistent and replied emphatically, “I will absolutely not! Under no circumstances will I ever deny you—even if I have to die with you!” And all the others repeated the same thing." 
Mark14:32 Then Jesus led his disciples to an orchard called “The Oil Press.” He told them, “Sit here while I pray awhile.”" 
Mark14:33 He took Peter, Jacob, and John with him. An intense feeling of great horror plunged his soul into deep sorrow." 
Mark14:33 He took Peter, Jacob, and John with him. An intense feeling of great horror plunged his soul into deep sorrow." 
Mark14:34 And he said to them, “My heart is overwhelmed with anguish and crushed with grief. It feels as though I’m dying. Stay here and keep watch with me.”" 
Mark14:35 He walked a short distance away, and being overcome with grief, he threw himself facedown on the ground. He prayed that if it were possible, he would not have to experience this hour of suffering." 
Mark14:36 He prayed, “Abba, my Father, all things are possible for you. Please—remove this cup of suffering! Yet what I want is not important, for I only desire to fulfill your plan for me.”" 
Mark14:37 Then he came back to his three disciples and found them all sound asleep. He awakened Peter and said to him, “Simon, are you asleep? Do you lack the strength to stay awake with me for even just an hour?" 
Mark14:38 Keep alert and pray that you’ll be spared from this time of testing. For your spirit is eager enough, but your humanity is feeble.”" 
Mark14:39 Then he left them a second time and went to pray the same thing. 
Mark14:40 Afterward, he came back to the disciples and found them sound asleep, for they couldn’t keep their eyes open and they didn’t know what to say to him." 
Mark14:41 After praying for the third time, he returned to his disciples and awoke them again, saying, “Do you plan on sleeping and resting indefinitely? That’s enough sleep! The end has come and the hour has arrived for the Son of Man to be handed over to the authority of sinful men." 
Mark14:42 Get up and let’s go. Don’t you see? My betrayer draws near.” 
Mark14:43 At that moment Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived, along with a large crowd of men armed with swords and clubs. They had been sent to arrest Jesus by order of the ruling priests, the religious scholars, and the Jewish leaders." 
Mark14:44 Now, Judas, the traitor, had arranged to give them a signal that would identify Jesus, for he had told them, “Jesus is the man I will kiss. So arrest him and take him away.”" 
Mark14:45 Judas quickly stepped up to Jesus and said, “Rabbi, my teacher!” and he kissed him on both cheeks." 
Mark14:46 Then the armed men seized Jesus to arrest him. 
Mark14:47 One of the disciples pulled out a sword and swung it at the servant of Caiaphas, the high priest, slashing off his ear." 
Mark14:48 Jesus said to the mob, “Why would you arrest me with swords and clubs as though I were an outlaw?" 
Mark14:49 Day after day I sat with you in the temple courts, teaching the people, yet you didn’t arrest me then. But all of this fulfills the prophecies of the Scriptures.”" 
Mark14:50 At that point all of his disciples ran away and abandoned him. 
Mark14:51 There was a young man there following Jesus, wearing only a linen sheet wrapped around him." 
Mark14:52 They tried to arrest him also, but he slipped from their grasp and ran off naked, leaving his linen cloth in their hands." 
Mark14:53 Those who arrested Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, to a meeting where the religious scholars and Jewish leaders were assembled." 
Mark14:54 Now, Peter had followed him from a distance all the way to the chief priest’s courtyard. He sat with the guards and was warming himself by the fire." 
Mark14:55 The chief priests and the Jewish council of leaders were doing their best to find false charges that they could bring against Jesus and condemn him to death, but they could not find any." 
Mark14:56 Many false witnesses came forward, but the evidence could not be corroborated." 
Mark14:57 Some came forward and testified against him, saying," 
Mark14:58 “We heard him say, ‘I can destroy this temple made with hands and then build another one again in three days not made with hands!’ ”" 
Mark14:59 Yet even on this point the witnesses did not agree. 
Mark14:60 Finally, the chief priest stood up in the middle of them and said to Jesus, “Have you nothing to say about these allegations? Is what they’re saying about you true?”" 
Mark14:61 But Jesus remained silent before them and did not answer. So the chief priest said to him, “Are you the anointed Messiah, the Son of the Blessed God?”" 
Mark14:62 Jesus answered him, “I am. And more than that, you are about to see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the Almighty and coming in the heavenly clouds!”" 
Mark14:63 Then, as an act of outrage, the high priest tore his robe and shouted, “No more witnesses are needed," 
Mark14:64 for you’ve heard this grievous blasphemy.” Turning to the council he said, “Now, what is your verdict?” “He’s guilty and deserves the death penalty!” they all answered." 
Mark14:65 Then they spat on his face and blindfolded him. Others struck him over and over with their fists and taunted him by saying, “Prophesy to us! Tell us which one of us is about to hit you next? ” And the guards took him and beat him." 
Mark14:66 Meanwhile, Peter was sitting below in the courtyard when a girl, a servant of the high priest, came near the fire." 
Mark14:67 When she saw Peter there warming himself, she said to him, “I recognize you. You were with that Nazarene, Jesus.”" 
Mark14:68 But Peter denied it, saying, “I don’t have a clue what you’re talking about.” Then he went out to the gateway of the courtyard and the rooster crowed." 
Mark14:69 When the servant girl noticed him, she said to all the bystanders, “I know this man is one of his followers!”" 
Mark14:70 Once again, Peter denied it. A short time later, the bystanders said to him, “You must be one of them. You’re a Galilean, like he is, for your accent proves it!”" 
Mark14:71 Peter cursed and said, “I tell you, I don’t know this man you’re talking about!”" 
Mark14:72 At the same moment Peter spoke those words, the sound of a rooster crowing pierced the night for the second time. And Peter remembered the words Jesus had spoken to him earlier: “Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” With his heart shattered, Peter broke down and sobbed with bitter tears." 
Mark15:1 Before dawn that morning, the ruling priests, elders, religious scholars, and the entire Jewish council set in motion their plan against Jesus. They bound him in chains, took him away, and handed him over to Pilate." 
Mark15:2 As Jesus stood in front of the Roman governor, Pilate asked him, “So, are you really the king of the Jews?” Jesus answered, “You have just spoken it.”" 
Mark15:3 Then the ruling priests, over and over, made bitter accusations against him, but he remained silent." 
Mark15:4 So Pilate questioned him again. “Have you nothing to say? Don’t you hear these many allegations they’re making against you?” 
Mark15:5 But Jesus offered no defense to any of the charges, much to the astonishment of Pilate." 
Mark15:6 Every year at Passover, it was the custom of the governor to pardon a prisoner and release him to the people—anyone they wanted." 
Mark15:7 Now, Pilate was holding in custody a notorious criminal named Barabbas, one of the assassins who had committed murder in an uprising." 
Mark15:8 The crowds gathered in front of Pilate’s judgment bench and asked him to release a prisoner to them, as was his custom." 
Mark15:9 So he asked them, “Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?”" 
Mark15:10 (Pilate was fully aware that the religious leaders had handed Jesus over to him because of spite and envy.) 
Mark15:11 But the ruling priests stirred up the crowd to incite them to ask for Barabbas instead. 
Mark15:12 So Pilate asked them, “What do you want me to do with this one you call the king of the Jews?”" 
Mark15:13 They all shouted back, “Crucify him!”" 
Mark15:14 “Why?” Pilate asked. “What evil thing has he done wrong to deserve that?” But they kept shouting out with a deafening roar, “Crucify him at once!”" 
Mark15:15 Because he wanted to please the people, Pilate released Barabbas to them. After he had Jesus severely beaten with a whip made of leather straps and embedded with metal, he sentenced him to be crucified." 
Mark15:16 The soldiers took Jesus into the headquarters of the governor’s compound and summoned a military unit of nearly six hundred men. 
Mark15:17 They placed a purple robe on him to make fun of him. Then they braided a victor’s crown, a wreath made of thorns, and set it on his head." 
Mark15:18 And with a mock salute they repeatedly cried out, “Hail, your majesty, king of the Jews!”" 
Mark15:19 They spit in his face and hit him repeatedly on his head with a reed staff, driving the crown of thorns deep into his brow. They knelt down before him in mockery, pretending to pay him homage." 
Mark15:20 When they finished ridiculing him, they took off the purple robe, put his own clothes back on him, and led him away to be crucified." 
Mark15:21 As they came out of the city, they stopped an African man named Simon, a native of Libya. He was passing by, just coming in from the countryside with his two sons, Alexander and Rufus, and the soldiers forced him to carry the heavy crossbeam for Jesus." 
Mark15:22 They brought Jesus to the execution site called Golgotha, which means “Skull Hill.”" 
Mark15:23 There they offered him a mild painkiller, a drink of wine mixed with gall, but he refused to drink it." 
Mark15:24 They nailed his hands and feet to the cross. The soldiers divided his clothing among themselves by rolling dice to see who would win them. 
Mark15:25 It was nine o’clock in the morning when they finally crucified him. 
Mark15:26 Above his head they placed a sign with the inscription of the charge against him, which read, “This is the King of the Jews.”" 
Mark15:27 Two criminals were also crucified with Jesus, one on each side of him." 
Mark15:28 This fulfilled the Scripture that says: He was considered to be a criminal. 
Mark15:29 Those who passed by shook their heads and spitefully ridiculed him, saying, “Aha! You boasted that you could destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days." 
Mark15:30 Why don’t you save yourself now? Just come down from the cross!” 
Mark15:31 Even the ruling priests and the religious scholars joined in the mockery and kept laughing among themselves, saying, “He saved others, but he can’t even save himself! Israel’s king, is he?" 
Mark15:32 Let the ‘Messiah,’ the ‘king of Israel,’ pull out the nails and come down from the cross right now. We’ll believe it when we see it!” Even the two criminals who were crucified with Jesus began to taunt him, hurling insults on him." 
Mark15:33 For three hours, beginning at noon, darkness came over the earth." 
Mark15:34 About three o’clock, Jesus shouted with a mighty voice in Aramaic, “Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?” —that is, “My God, My God, why have you turned your back on me?”" 
Mark15:35 Some who were standing near the cross misunderstood and said, “Listen! He’s calling for Elijah.”" 
Mark15:36 One bystander ran and got a sponge, soaked it with sour wine, then put it on a stick and held it up for Jesus to drink. But the rest said, “Leave him alone! Let’s see if Elijah comes to rescue him.”" 
Mark15:37 Just then Jesus passionately cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. 
Mark15:38 At that moment the veil in the Holy of Holies was torn in two from the top to the bottom. 
Mark15:39 When the Roman military officer who was standing right in front of Jesus saw how he died, he said, “There is no doubt this man was the Son of God!”" 
Mark15:40 Watching from a distance, away from the crowds, were many of the women who had followed Jesus from Galilee and had cared for him. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of Jacob the younger and Joseph, and Salome. Many other women who had followed him to Jerusalem were there too." 
Mark15:41  
Mark15:42 Evening was fast approaching, and it was a preparation day before a Sabbath." 
Mark15:43 So a prominent Jewish leader named Joseph, from the village of Ramah, courageously went to see Pilate and begged to have custody of the body of Jesus. Joseph was a highly regarded member of the Jewish council and a follower of Jesus who was eagerly awaiting the kingdom of God." 
Mark15:44 Pilate was amazed to hear that Jesus was already dead, so he summoned the Roman officer, who confirmed it." 
Mark15:45 After it was confirmed, Pilate consented to give the corpse to Joseph." 
Mark15:46 Joseph purchased a shroud of fine linen and took the body down from the cross. Then he wrapped it in the linen shroud and placed it in a tomb quarried from out of the rock. Then they rolled a large stone over the entrance to seal the tomb. 
Mark15:47 Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph were there and saw exactly where they laid the body of Jesus. 
Mark16:1 On the first day of the week, as the Sabbath was ending, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of Jacob, and Salome made their way to the tomb. It was very early in the morning as the first streaks of light were beginning to be seen in the sky. They had purchased aromatic embalming spices so that they might anoint his body." 
Mark16:2  
Mark16:3 And they had been asking one another, “Who can roll away the heavy stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?”" 
Mark16:4 But when they arrived, they discovered that the very large stone was already rolled away!" 
Mark16:5 And as they stepped into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, dressed in a long white robe. The women were startled and amazed." 
Mark16:6 But the angel said to them, “Don’t be afraid. I know that you’re here looking for Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He isn’t here—he has risen victoriously! Look! See the place where they laid him." 
Mark16:7 Run and tell his disciples, even Peter, that he is risen. He has gone ahead of you into Galilee and you will see him there, just like he told you.”" 
Mark16:8 They staggered out of the tomb, awestruck, with their minds swirling. They ran to tell the disciples, but they were so afraid and amazed, they said nothing to anyone." 
Mark16:9 Early on the first day of the week, after rising from the dead, Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons." 
Mark16:10 After she had seen Jesus, she ran to tell his disciples, who were all emotionally devastated and weeping." 
Mark16:11 Excitedly, Mary told them, “He’s alive and I’ve seen him!” But even after hearing this, they didn’t believe her." 
Mark16:12 After this, Jesus appeared to two of the disciples, who were on their way to another village, appearing in a form they did not recognize." 
Mark16:13 They went back to Jerusalem to tell the rest of the disciples, but they didn’t believe it was true." 
Mark16:14 Then Jesus appeared before the eleven apostles as they were eating a meal. He corrected them for having such hard, unbelieving hearts because they did not believe those who saw him after his resurrection." 
Mark16:15 And he said to them, “As you go into all the world, preach openly the wonderful news of the gospel to the entire human race!" 
Mark16:16 Whoever believes the good news and is baptized will be saved, and whoever does not believe the good news will be condemned." 
Mark16:17 And these miracle signs will accompany those who believe: They will drive out demons in the power of my name. They will speak in tongues. 
Mark16:18 They will be supernaturally protected from snakes and from drinking anything poisonous. And they will lay hands on the sick and heal them.” 
Mark16:19 After saying these things, Jesus was lifted up into heaven and sat down at the place of honor at the right hand of God!" 
Mark16:20 And the apostles went out announcing the good news everywhere, as the Lord himself consistently worked with them, validating the message they preached with miracle-signs that accompanied them!" 
Luke1:1 I am writing for you, mighty lover of God, an orderly account of what Jesus accomplished and fulfilled among us. Several eyewitness biographies have already been written, using as their source material the good news preached among us by his early disciples, who were from the beginning loving servants of the Living Expression. Now I am passing on to you this accurate compilation of my own meticulous investigation based on numerous eyewitness interviews. It is appropriate for me to write this, for he also appeared to me so that I would reassure you beyond any shadow of a doubt the reliability of all you have been taught of him." 
Luke1:2  
Luke1:3  
Luke1:4  
Luke1:5 During the reign of King Herod the Great of Judea, there was a Jewish priest named Zechariah who served in the temple as part of the priestly order of Abijah. His wife, Elizabeth, was also from a family of priests, and was a descendant of Aaron." 
Luke1:5 During the reign of King Herod the Great of Judea, there was a Jewish priest named Zechariah who served in the temple as part of the priestly order of Abijah. His wife, Elizabeth, was also from a family of priests, and was a descendant of Aaron." 
Luke1:6 They were both righteous before God, living virtuously and following the commandments of the Lord blamelessly." 
Luke1:7 But they were childless since Elizabeth was barren, and now they both were quite old." 
Luke1:8 One day, Zechariah’s priestly order was on duty and he was serving as priest. He was chosen by the casting of lots (according to the custom of the priesthood) so the honor fell upon Zechariah to enter the Holy Place and burn incense before the Lord." 
Luke1:9  
Luke1:10 A large crowd of worshipers had gathered to pray outside the temple at the hour when incense was being offered. 
Luke1:11 All at once an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing just to the right of the altar of incense." 
Luke1:12 Zechariah was startled and overwhelmed with fear. 
Luke1:13 But the angel reassured him, saying, “Don’t be afraid, Zechariah! God is showing grace to you. For I have come to tell you that your prayer for a child has been answered. Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son and you are to name him John." 
Luke1:13 But the angel reassured him, saying, “Don’t be afraid, Zechariah! God is showing grace to you. For I have come to tell you that your prayer for a child has been answered. Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son and you are to name him John." 
Luke1:14 His birth will bring you much joy and gladness. Many will rejoice because of him," 
Luke1:15 and he will be one of the great ones in the sight of God. He will drink no wine or strong drink, but he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even while still in his mother’s womb." 
Luke1:16 And he will persuade many in Israel to convert and turn back to the Lord their God. 
Luke1:17 He will go before the Lord as a forerunner, with the same power and anointing as Elijah the prophet. He will be instrumental in turning the hearts of the fathers in tenderness back to their children and the hearts of the disobedient back to the wisdom of their righteous fathers. And he will prepare a united people who are ready for the Lord’s appearing.”" 
Luke1:18 Zechariah asked the angel, “How do you expect me to believe this? I’m an old man and my wife is too old to give me a child. What sign can you give me to prove this will happen? ”" 
Luke1:19 Then the angel said, “I am Gabriel. I stand beside God himself. He has sent me to announce to you this good news." 
Luke1:20 But now, since you did not believe my words, you will be stricken silent and unable to speak until the day my words have been fulfilled at their appointed time and a child is born to you. That will be your sign!”" 
Luke1:21 Meanwhile, the crowds outside kept expecting him to come out. They were amazed over Zechariah’s delay, wondering what could have happened inside the sanctuary." 
Luke1:22 When he finally did come out, he tried to talk, but he couldn’t speak a word, and they realized from his gestures that he had seen a vision while in the Holy Place." 
Luke1:23 He remained mute as he finished his days of priestly ministry in the temple and then went back to his own home. 
Luke1:24 Soon afterward his wife, Elizabeth, became pregnant and went into seclusion for the next five months." 
Luke1:25 With joy she exclaimed, “See how kind it is of God to gaze upon me and take away the disgrace of my barrenness!”" 
Luke1:26 During the sixth month of Elizabeth’s pregnancy, the angel Gabriel was sent from God’s presence to an unmarried girl named Mary, living in Nazareth, a village in Galilee. She was engaged to a man named Joseph, a true descendant of King David." 
Luke1:27  
Luke1:28 Gabriel appeared to her and said, “Rejoice, beloved young woman, for the Lord is with you and you are anointed with great favor.”" 
Luke1:29 Mary was deeply troubled over the words of the angel and bewildered over what this may mean for her. 
Luke1:30 But the angel reassured her, saying, “Do not yield to your fear, Mary, for the Lord has found delight in you and has chosen to surprise you with a wonderful gift." 
Luke1:31 You will become pregnant with a baby boy, and you are to name him Jesus." 
Luke1:32 He will be supreme and will be known as the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will enthrone him as King on the throne of his ancestor David. 
Luke1:33 He will reign as King of Israel forever, and his reign will have no limit.”" 
Luke1:34 Mary said, “But how could this happen? I am still a virgin!”" 
Luke1:35 Gabriel answered, “The Spirit of Holiness will fall upon you and almighty God will spread his shadow of power over you in a cloud of glory! This is why the child born to you will be holy, and he will be called the Son of God." 
Luke1:36 What’s more, your aged aunt, Elizabeth, has also become pregnant with a son. The ‘barren one’ is now in her sixth month." 
Luke1:37 Not one promise from God is empty of power. Nothing is impossible with God!” 
Luke1:38 Then Mary responded, saying, “ Yes! I will be a mother for the Lord! As his servant, I accept whatever he has for me. May everything you have told me come to pass.” And the angel left her." 
Luke1:39 Afterward, Mary arose and hurried off to the hill country of Judea, to the village where Zechariah and Elizabeth lived." 
Luke1:39 Afterward, Mary arose and hurried off to the hill country of Judea, to the village where Zechariah and Elizabeth lived." 
Luke1:40 Arriving at their home, Mary entered the house and greeted Elizabeth." 
Luke1:41 At the moment her aunt heard Mary’s voice, the baby within Elizabeth’s womb jumped and kicked. And suddenly, Elizabeth was filled to overflowing with the Holy Spirit!" 
Luke1:42 With a loud voice she prophesied with power: “Mary! You are a woman given the highest favor and privilege above all others, for your child is destined to bring God great delight." 
Luke1:43 How did I deserve such a remarkable honor to have the mother of my Lord come and visit me? 
Luke1:44 The moment you came in the door and greeted me, my baby danced inside me with joy!" 
Luke1:45 Great favor rests upon you, for you have believed every word spoken to you from the Lord.”" 
Luke1:46 And Mary sang this song: “My soul is ecstatic, overflowing with praises to God!" 
Luke1:47 My spirit bursts with joy over my life-giving God! 
Luke1:48 For he set his tender gaze upon me, his lowly servant girl. And from here on, everyone will know that I have been favored and blessed." 
Luke1:49 The Mighty One has worked a mighty miracle for me; holy is his name! 
Luke1:50 Mercy kisses all who fear him, from one generation to the next." 
Luke1:51 Mighty power flows from him to scatter all those who walk in pride. 
Luke1:52 Powerful princes he tears from their thrones and he lifts up the lowly to take their place. 
Luke1:53 Those who hunger for him will always be filled, but the smug and self-satisfied he will send away empty." 
Luke1:54 Because he can never forget to show mercy, he has helped his chosen servant, Israel," 
Luke1:55 keeping his promises to Abraham and to his descendants forever.” 
Luke1:56 Before going home, Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months." 
Luke1:57 When Elizabeth’s pregnancy was full term, she gave birth to a son." 
Luke1:58 All her family, friends, and neighbors heard about it, and they too were overjoyed, for they realized that the Lord had showered his wonderful mercy upon her." 
Luke1:59 When the baby was eight days old, according to their custom, all the family and friends came together for the circumcision ceremony. Everyone assumed that the parents would name the baby Zechariah, after his father," 
Luke1:60 but Elizabeth spoke up and said, “No, his name is John!”" 
Luke1:60 but Elizabeth spoke up and said, “No, his name is John!”" 
Luke1:61 “What?” they exclaimed. “No one in your family line has that name!” 
Luke1:62 So they gestured to the baby’s father to ask what to name the child. 
Luke1:63 He motioned for a writing tablet, and to the amazement of all, he wrote, “His name is John.”" 
Luke1:63 He motioned for a writing tablet, and to the amazement of all, he wrote, “His name is John.”" 
Luke1:64 Instantly Zechariah could speak again. And his first words were praises to the Lord. 
Luke1:65 The fear of God fell on the people of their village, and the news of this astounding event traveled throughout the hill country of Judea. Everyone was in awe over it!" 
Luke1:65 The fear of God fell on the people of their village, and the news of this astounding event traveled throughout the hill country of Judea. Everyone was in awe over it!" 
Luke1:66 All who heard this news were astonished and wondered, “ Since a miracle brought his birth, what on earth will this child become? Clearly, God’s presence is upon this child in a powerful way!”" 
Luke1:67 Then Zechariah was filled to overflowing with the Holy Spirit and he prophesied, saying:" 
Luke1:68 “Praise be to the exalted Lord God of Israel, for he has seen us through eyes of grace, and he comes as our Hero-God to set us free!" 
Luke1:69 He appears to us as a mighty Savior, a trumpet of redemption from the house of David, his servant," 
Luke1:70 just as he promised long ago by the words of his holy prophets. 
Luke1:71 They prophesied he would come one day and save us from every one of our enemies and from the power of those who hate us. 
Luke1:72 Now he has shown us the mercy promised to our ancestors, for he has remembered his holy covenant." 
Luke1:73 He has rescued us from the power of our enemies, fulfilling the sacred oath he made with our father Abraham. Now we can boldly worship God with holy lives, living in purity as priests in his presence every day!" 
Luke1:74  
Luke1:75  
Luke1:76 And to you I prophesy, my little son, you will be known as the prophet of the Most High. You will be a forerunner, going before the face of Lord Yahweh, to prepare hearts to embrace his ways." 
Luke1:77 You will preach to his people the revelation of salvation, the cancellation of all our sins, to bring us back to God." 
Luke1:78 The splendor-light of heaven’s glorious sunrise is about to break upon us in holy visitation, all because the merciful heart of our God is so very tender." 
Luke1:79 The word from heaven will come to us with dazzling light to shine upon those who live in darkness, near death’s dark shadow. And he will illuminate the path that leads to the way of peace.”" 
Luke1:80 Afterward, their son grew up and was strengthened by the Holy Spirit and he grew in his love for God. John chose to live in the lonely wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel." 
Luke1:80 Afterward, their son grew up and was strengthened by the Holy Spirit and he grew in his love for God. John chose to live in the lonely wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel." 
Luke2:1 During those days, the Roman emperor, Caesar Augustus, ordered that the first census be taken throughout his empire. (Quirinius was the governor of Syria at that time.)" 
Luke2:2  
Luke2:3 Everyone had to travel to the hometown of their family to complete the mandatory census. 
Luke2:4 So Joseph and his wife, Mary, left Nazareth, a village in Galilee, and journeyed to their hometown in Judea, to the village of Bethlehem, King David’s ancient home. They were required to register there, since they were both direct descendants of David. Mary was pregnant and nearly ready to give birth." 
Luke2:4 So Joseph and his wife, Mary, left Nazareth, a village in Galilee, and journeyed to their hometown in Judea, to the village of Bethlehem, King David’s ancient home. They were required to register there, since they were both direct descendants of David. Mary was pregnant and nearly ready to give birth." 
Luke2:5  
Luke2:6 When they arrived in Bethlehem, Mary went into labor, and there she gave birth to her firstborn son. She wrapped the newborn baby in strips of cloth, and Mary and Joseph laid him in a feeding trough since there was no available space in any upper room in the village." 
Luke2:7  
Luke2:8 That night, in a field near Bethlehem, shepherds were watching over their flocks." 
Luke2:9 Suddenly, an angel of the Lord appeared in radiant splendor before them, lighting up the field with the blazing glory of God, and the shepherds were terrified!" 
Luke2:10 But the angel reassured them, saying, “Don’t be afraid, for I have come to bring you good news, the most joyous news the world has ever heard! And it is for everyone everywhere!" 
Luke2:11 For today in Bethlehem a rescuer was born for you. He is the Lord Yahweh, the Messiah." 
Luke2:12 You will recognize him by this miraculous sign: You will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in the feeding trough!” 
Luke2:13 Then all at once in the night sky, a vast number of glorious angels appeared, the very armies of heaven! And they all praised God, singing:" 
Luke2:14 “Glory to God in the highest realms of heaven! For there is peace and a good hope given to the sons of men.” 
Luke2:15 When the choir of angels disappeared and returned to heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go! Let’s hurry and find this Word who is born in Bethlehem and see for ourselves what the Lord has revealed to us.”" 
Luke2:16 So they hurried off and found their way to Mary and Joseph. And there was the baby, lying in a feeding trough." 
Luke2:17 Upon seeing this miraculous sign, the shepherds recounted what had just happened." 
Luke2:18 Everyone who heard the shepherds’ story was astonished by what they were told. 
Luke2:19 But Mary treasured all these things in her heart and often pondered what they meant. 
Luke2:20 The shepherds returned to their flock, ecstatic over what had happened. They praised God and glorified him for all they had heard and seen for themselves, just like the angel had said." 
Luke2:21 On the day of the baby’s circumcision ceremony, eight days after his birth, his parents gave him the name Jesus, the name prophesied by the angel before he was born." 
Luke2:22 Forty days after the birth of her son, Mary’s time of purification had completed, so she came to the temple with a sacrifice, according to the law of Moses. So Mary and Joseph took baby Jesus to Jerusalem to be dedicated before the Lord." 
Luke2:23 For it is stated in the law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male shall be set apart for God”" 
Luke2:24 and is required to offer a prescribed sacrifice, “either a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.”" 
Luke2:25 As they came to the temple to fulfill this requirement, an elderly man was there waiting—a resident of Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. He was a very good man, a lover of God who kept himself pure, and the Spirit of holiness rested upon him. Simeon believed in the imminent appearing of the one called “The Refreshing of Israel.”" 
Luke2:26 For the Holy Spirit had revealed to him that he would not see death before he saw the Messiah, the Anointed One of God." 
Luke2:27 Keeping his promise, the Holy Spirit led Simeon to be in the temple court at the very moment Jesus’ parents entered to fulfill the requirement of the sacrifice." 
Luke2:28 Simeon cradled the baby in his arms and praised God and prophesied: 
Luke2:29 “Lord and Master, I am your loving servant, and now I can die content, for you have fulfilled your promise to me. With my own eyes I have seen your Word, the Savior you sent into the world." 
Luke2:30  
Luke2:31  
Luke2:32 He will be glory for your people Israel, and the Revelation-Light for all people everywhere!”" 
Luke2:32 He will be glory for your people Israel, and the Revelation-Light for all people everywhere!”" 
Luke2:33 Mary and Joseph stood there, awestruck over what was being said about their baby. Simeon then blessed them and prophesied over Mary, saying:" 
Luke2:34 “A painful sword will one day pierce your inner being, for your child will be rejected by many in Israel. And the destiny of your child is this: he will be laid down as a miracle sign for the downfall and resurrection of many in Israel. Many will oppose this sign, but it will expose to all the innermost thoughts of their hearts before God.”" 
Luke2:35  
Luke2:36 A prophetess named Anna was also in the temple court that day. She was from the tribe of Asher and the daughter of Phanuel. Anna was an aged widow who had been married only seven years before her husband passed away. After he died she chose to worship God in the temple continually. For the past eighty-four years she had been serving God with night-and-day prayer and fasting. 
Luke2:37  
Luke2:38 While Simeon was prophesying over Mary and Joseph and the baby, Anna walked up to them and burst forth with a great chorus of praise to God for the child. From that day forward she told everyone in Jerusalem who was waiting for their redemption that the anticipated Messiah had come!" 
Luke2:39 When Mary and Joseph had completed everything required of them by the Law of the Lord, they took Jesus and returned to their home in Nazareth in Galilee." 
Luke2:40 The child grew more powerful in grace, for he was being filled with wisdom, and the favor of God was upon him." 
Luke2:41 Every year Jesus’ parents went to worship at Jerusalem during the Passover festival. 
Luke2:42 When Jesus turned twelve, his parents took him to Jerusalem to observe the Passover, as was their custom." 
Luke2:43 A full day after they began their journey home, Joseph and Mary realized that Jesus was missing." 
Luke2:44 They had assumed he was somewhere in their entourage, but he was nowhere to be found. After a frantic search among relatives and friends," 
Luke2:45 Mary and Joseph returned to Jerusalem to search for him. 
Luke2:46 After being separated from him for three days, they finally found him in the temple, sitting among the Jewish teachers, listening to them and asking probing questions." 
Luke2:47 All who heard Jesus speak were awestruck at his intelligent understanding of all that was being discussed and at his wise answers to their questions. 
Luke2:48 His parents were shocked to find him there, and Mary scolded him, saying, “Son, your father and I have searched for you everywhere! We have been worried sick over not finding you. Why would you do this to us?”" 
Luke2:49 Jesus said to them, “Why would you need to search for me? Didn’t you know that it was necessary for me to be here in my Father’s house, consumed with him?”" 
Luke2:50 Mary and Joseph didn’t fully understand what Jesus meant. 
Luke2:51 Jesus went back home with them to Nazareth and was obedient to them. His mother treasured Jesus’ words deeply in her heart. 
Luke2:52 As Jesus grew, so did his wisdom and maturity. The favor of men increased upon his life, for he was greatly loved by God." 
Luke3:1 A powerful message from God came to John, Zechariah’s son, when he was living out in the lonely wilderness. This prophetic commission came to John during the fifteenth year of the reign of Emperor Tiberius, son of Caesar. Pontius Pilate was governor over Judea at that time. Antipas, son of Herod, was governor over Galilee, Herod’s brother Philip was over the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was over Abilene. This happened during the days of two high priests, Annas and Caiaphas." 
Luke3:1 A powerful message from God came to John, Zechariah’s son, when he was living out in the lonely wilderness. This prophetic commission came to John during the fifteenth year of the reign of Emperor Tiberius, son of Caesar. Pontius Pilate was governor over Judea at that time. Antipas, son of Herod, was governor over Galilee, Herod’s brother Philip was over the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was over Abilene. This happened during the days of two high priests, Annas and Caiaphas." 
Luke3:1 A powerful message from God came to John, Zechariah’s son, when he was living out in the lonely wilderness. This prophetic commission came to John during the fifteenth year of the reign of Emperor Tiberius, son of Caesar. Pontius Pilate was governor over Judea at that time. Antipas, son of Herod, was governor over Galilee, Herod’s brother Philip was over the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was over Abilene. This happened during the days of two high priests, Annas and Caiaphas." 
Luke3:2  
Luke3:3 John went preaching and baptizing throughout the Jordan Valley. He persuaded people to turn away from their sins and turn to God for the freedom of forgiveness," 
Luke3:3 John went preaching and baptizing throughout the Jordan Valley. He persuaded people to turn away from their sins and turn to God for the freedom of forgiveness," 
Luke3:4 fulfilling what was written in the book of the prophet Isaiah: “Listen! You will hear a thunderous voice in the lonely wilderness telling you to wake up and get your heart ready for the coming of the Lord Yahweh. Make straight every twisted thing in your lives. 
Luke3:5 Bring into the light every dark way. Make right every wrong. Remove injustice. Every heart of pride will humbly bow before him. Every deception will be exposed and replaced by the truth to prepare everyone everywhere to see the Life of God!” 
Luke3:6  
Luke3:7 John kept preaching to the many crowds who came out to be baptized, “You are nothing but the offspring of venomous snakes, full of deception! Who warned you to repent before the coming wrath of God?" 
Luke3:7 John kept preaching to the many crowds who came out to be baptized, “You are nothing but the offspring of venomous snakes, full of deception! Who warned you to repent before the coming wrath of God?" 
Luke3:8 Then turn away from your sins, turn to God, and let your changed life be proof. Don’t think for a moment that it’s enough to simply be the favored descendants of Abraham. That’s not enough to save you. I’m telling you, God could make more sons of Abraham out of stones if he chose to!" 
Luke3:9 “Even now God’s axe of judgment is poised to chop down your barren tree right down to its roots! And every tree that does not produce good fruit will be leveled and thrown into the fire.” 
Luke3:10 The crowd kept asking him, “What then are we supposed to do?”" 
Luke3:11 John told them, “Give food to the hungry, clothe the poor, and bless the needy.”" 
Luke3:11 John told them, “Give food to the hungry, clothe the poor, and bless the needy.”" 
Luke3:12 Even the despised tax collectors came to John to be baptized, and they asked him, “What are we to do to prove our hearts have changed?”" 
Luke3:12 Even the despised tax collectors came to John to be baptized, and they asked him, “What are we to do to prove our hearts have changed?”" 
Luke3:13 “Be honest,” he replied. “Don’t demand more taxes than what the law requires.”" 
Luke3:14 “And us?” asked some soldiers. “What about us?” John answered them, “Be content with what you earn. Never extort money or terrify others by threats of violence or be guilty of accusing the innocent.”" 
Luke3:14 “And us?” asked some soldiers. “What about us?” John answered them, “Be content with what you earn. Never extort money or terrify others by threats of violence or be guilty of accusing the innocent.”" 
Luke3:15 During those days, everyone was gripped with messianic expectations, believing the Messiah could come at any moment, and many began to wonder if John might be the Christ." 
Luke3:15 During those days, everyone was gripped with messianic expectations, believing the Messiah could come at any moment, and many began to wonder if John might be the Christ." 
Luke3:16 But John made it clear by telling them, “There is one coming who is mightier than I. He is supreme. In fact, I’m not worthy of even being his slave. I can only baptize you in this river, but he will baptize you into the Spirit of holiness and into his raging fire." 
Luke3:16 But John made it clear by telling them, “There is one coming who is mightier than I. He is supreme. In fact, I’m not worthy of even being his slave. I can only baptize you in this river, but he will baptize you into the Spirit of holiness and into his raging fire." 
Luke3:17 He has in his hands a winnowing fork to clean up his threshing floor! He will separate the wheat from the chaff. The wheat he will gather into his barn, but he will burn the chaff in a fire that no one can ever put out!”" 
Luke3:18 John used many similar warnings as he preached the good news and prepared the people. 
Luke3:18 John used many similar warnings as he preached the good news and prepared the people. 
Luke3:19 He even publicly rebuked Antipas, son of Herod, the governor of Galilee, for the many wicked things he had done. He fearlessly reprimanded him for seducing and marrying his sister-in-law, Herodias." 
Luke3:20 Adding to his many other sins, Herod had John seized and locked up in prison." 
Luke3:20 Adding to his many other sins, Herod had John seized and locked up in prison." 
Luke3:21 One day, Jesus came to be baptized along with all the others. As he was consumed with the spirit of prayer, the heavenly realm ripped open above him and the Holy Spirit descended from heaven in the form of a dove and landed on him. Then God’s audible voice was heard, saying, “My Son, you are my beloved one. Through you I am fulfilled.”" 
Luke3:22  
Luke4:1 From the moment of his baptism, Jesus overflowed with the Holy Spirit. He was taken by the Spirit from the Jordan into the wilderness of Judea to experience for forty days the ordeal of testing by the accuser. He ate no food during this time and ended his forty-day fast very hungry." 
Luke4:1 From the moment of his baptism, Jesus overflowed with the Holy Spirit. He was taken by the Spirit from the Jordan into the wilderness of Judea to experience for forty days the ordeal of testing by the accuser. He ate no food during this time and ended his forty-day fast very hungry." 
Luke4:2  
Luke4:3 It was then the devil said to him, “If you are really the Son of God, command this stone to turn into a loaf of bread for you.”" 
Luke4:4 Jesus replied, “I will not! For it is written in the Scriptures, ‘Life does not come only from eating bread but from God. Life flows from every revelation from his mouth.’ ”" 
Luke4:5 The devil lifted Jesus high into the sky, and in a flash showed him all the kingdoms and regions of the world." 
Luke4:6 The devil then said to Jesus, “All of this, with all its power, authority, and splendor, is mine to give to whomever I wish. Just do one thing, and you will have it all. Simply bow down to worship me, and it will be yours! You will possess everything!”" 
Luke4:7  
Luke4:8 Jesus rebuked him and said, “Satan, get behind me! For it is written in the Scriptures, ‘Only One is worthy of adoration; therefore, worship only the Lord your God and love him supremely.’ ”" 
Luke4:9 Next, the devil took Jesus to Jerusalem, set him on the highest point of the temple, and tempted him, saying, “If you really are the Son of God, jump down in front of all the people." 
Luke4:10 For it is written in the Scriptures, ‘God has given his angels instructions to protect you from harm. For angels’ hands will hold you up and keep you from hurting even one foot on a stone.’ ”" 
Luke4:11  
Luke4:12 Jesus replied, “It is also written in the Scriptures, ‘How dare you provoke the Lord your God!’ ”" 
Luke4:13 That silenced the devil’s harassment for the time being. So he retreated until an opportune time. 
Luke4:14 Then Jesus, armed with the Holy Spirit’s power, returned to Galilee, and his fame spread throughout the region." 
Luke4:15 He taught in the synagogues and they glorified him. 
Luke4:16 When he came to Nazareth, where he had grown up, he went into the synagogue, as he always did on the Sabbath. When Jesus came to the front to read the Scriptures, he was handed the scroll of the prophet Isaiah. He unrolled the scroll and found where it is written," 
Luke4:17  
Luke4:18 “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, and he has anointed me to be hope for the poor, healing for the brokenhearted, and new eyes for the blind, and to preach to prisoners, ‘You are set free!’ I have come to share the message of Jubilee, for the time of God’s great acceptance has begun.”" 
Luke4:19  
Luke4:20 After he read this he rolled up the scroll, handed it back to the attendant, and sat down. Everyone stared at Jesus, wondering what he was about to say." 
Luke4:21 Then he added, “Today, these Scriptures came true in front of you.”" 
Luke4:22 Everyone was impressed by how well Jesus spoke, in awe of the beautiful words of grace that came from his lips. But they said among themselves, “ Who does he think he is? Isn’t he Joseph’s son, who grew up here in Nazareth?”" 
Luke4:23 Jesus said to them, “I suppose you’ll quote me the proverb, ‘Doctor, go and heal yourself before you try to heal others.’ And you’ll say, ‘Work the miracles here in your hometown that we heard you did in Capernaum.’" 
Luke4:24 But let me tell you, no prophet is welcomed or honored in his own hometown." 
Luke4:25 “Isn’t it true that many widows lived in the land of Israel during the days of the prophet Elijah when he locked up the heavens for three and a half years and brought a devastating famine over all the land? 
Luke4:26 But he wasn’t sent to any of the widows living in that region. Instead, he was sent to a foreign place, to a widow in Zarephath of Sidon." 
Luke4:27 Or have you not considered that the prophet Elisha healed only Naaman, the Syrian, rather than one of the many Jewish lepers living in the land?”" 
Luke4:28 When everyone present heard Jesus’ words, they erupted with furious rage." 
Luke4:29 They mobbed Jesus and threw him out of the city, dragging him to the edge of the cliff on the hill on which the city had been built, ready to hurl him off." 
Luke4:30 But he walked right through the crowd, leaving them all stunned." 
Luke4:31 Jesus went to Capernaum in Galilee and taught the people on the Sabbath day. 
Luke4:32 His teaching stunned and dazed them, for he spoke with penetrating words and great authority." 
Luke4:33 In the congregation, there was a demonized man, who screamed out with a loud voice," 
Luke4:34 “Go away and leave us alone. We know who you are. You’re Jesus of Nazareth, God’s Holy One. What do you want with us? Have you come to destroy us already?”" 
Luke4:35 Immediately the demon hurled the man down on the floor in front of them. But Jesus rebuked the demon, “Be quiet and come out of him!” And without causing him any harm, the demon came out of him." 
Luke4:36 Great astonishment swept over the people, and they said among themselves, “What kind of man is this who has such power and authority? With a mere word, he commands demons to come out, and they obey him!”" 
Luke4:37 Reports about Jesus spread like wildfire throughout every community in the surrounding region. 
Luke4:38 After leaving the synagogue, Jesus went into Simon’s house, where Simon’s mother-in-law was sick with a high fever. The disciples begged Jesus to help her." 
Luke4:39 Jesus stood over her and rebuked the fever, and she was healed instantly. Then she got up and began to serve them." 
Luke4:40 At sunset, the people brought all those who were sick to Jesus to be healed. Jesus laid his hands on them one by one, and he healed them all of different illnesses." 
Luke4:41 Demons also came out of many of them. Knowing that Jesus was the Anointed One, the demons shouted while coming out, “You are the Messiah, the Son of El Shaddai!” But Jesus rebuked them and commanded them to be silent." 
Luke4:42 At daybreak the next morning, the crowds came and searched everywhere for him, but Jesus had already left to go to a secluded place. When they finally found him, they held him tightly, begging him to stay with them in Capernaum." 
Luke4:43 But Jesus said, “Don’t you know there are other places I must go and offer the hope of God’s kingdom? This is what I have been sent to do.”" 
Luke4:44 Jesus continued to travel and preach in the synagogues throughout the land. 
Luke5:1 On one occasion, Jesus was preaching to a crowd on the shore of Lake Galilee. A vast multitude of people was pushing to get close to Jesus to hear the word of God." 
Luke5:2 He noticed two fishing boats at the water’s edge, with the fishermen nearby, rinsing their nets." 
Luke5:3 Jesus climbed into the boat belonging to Simon Peter and said to him, “Let me use your boat. Push it off a short distance away from the shore so I can speak to the crowd.”" 
Luke5:4 Jesus sat down and taught the people from the boat. When he had finished, he said to Peter, “Now row out to deep water to cast your nets and you will have a great catch.”" 
Luke5:5 “Master,” Peter replied, “we’ve just come back from fishing all night and didn’t catch a thing. But if you insist, we’ll go out again and let down our nets because of your word.”" 
Luke5:6 When they pulled up their nets, they were shocked to see a huge catch of fish, and their nets were ready to burst!" 
Luke5:7 They waved to their business partners in the other boat for help. They ended up completely filling both boats with fish until they began to sink! 
Luke5:8 When Simon Peter saw this astonishing miracle, he knelt at Jesus’ feet and begged him, “Go away from me, Master, for I am a sinful man!”" 
Luke5:9 Simon Peter and the other fishermen—including his fishing partners, Jacob and John, the sons of Zebedee—were awestruck over the miracle catch of fish. Jesus answered, “Do not yield to your fear, Simon Peter. From now on, you will catch men for salvation!”" 
Luke5:9 Simon Peter and the other fishermen—including his fishing partners, Jacob and John, the sons of Zebedee—were awestruck over the miracle catch of fish. Jesus answered, “Do not yield to your fear, Simon Peter. From now on, you will catch men for salvation!”" 
Luke5:10  
Luke5:11 After pulling their boats to the shore, they left everything behind and followed Jesus." 
Luke5:12 One day, while Jesus was in a certain city, he came upon a man covered with leprous sores. When the man recognized Jesus, he fell on his face at Jesus’ feet and begged to be healed, saying, “If you were willing, you could completely heal me.”" 
Luke5:13 Jesus reached out and touched him and said, “Of course I am willing to heal you, and now you will be healed.” Instantly, the leprous sores were healed, and his skin became smooth. Jesus said, “Tell no one what has happened, but go to the temple priests and show them you’ve been healed. And to show that you are purified, make an offering for your cleansing, just as Moses commanded. You will become a living testimony to them!”" 
Luke5:14  
Luke5:15 After this miracle, the news about Jesus spread even farther. Massive crowds continually gathered to hear him speak and to be healed from their illnesses." 
Luke5:16 But Jesus often slipped away from them and went into the wilderness to pray. 
Luke5:17 One day, many Jewish religious leaders known as Pharisees, along with many religious scholars, came from every village in Galilee, throughout Judea, and even from Jerusalem to hear Jesus teach. And the power of the Lord God surged through him to instantly heal the sick." 
Luke5:17 One day, many Jewish religious leaders known as Pharisees, along with many religious scholars, came from every village in Galilee, throughout Judea, and even from Jerusalem to hear Jesus teach. And the power of the Lord God surged through him to instantly heal the sick." 
Luke5:18 Some men came to Jesus, carrying a paraplegic man on a stretcher. They attempted to bring him in past the crowd to set him down in front of Jesus." 
Luke5:19 But because there were so many people crowding the door, they had no way to bring him inside. So they crawled onto the roof, dug their way through the roof tiles, and lowered the man, stretcher and all, into the middle of the crowd, right in front of Jesus." 
Luke5:20 Seeing the demonstration of their faith, Jesus said to the paraplegic man, “My friend, your sins are forgiven!”" 
Luke5:21 The Jewish religious leaders and the religious scholars whispered objections among themselves. “Who does this man think he is to speak such blasphemy? Only God can forgive sins! Does he think he is God? ” 
Luke5:22 Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Why do you argue in your hearts over what I do and think that it is blasphemy for me to say his sins are forgiven? Let me ask you, which is easier to prove: when I say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or when I say, ‘Stand up, carry your stretcher, and walk’?” Jesus turned to the paraplegic man and said," 
Luke5:23  
Luke5:24 “To prove to you all that I, the Son of Man, have the lawful authority on earth to forgive sins, I say to you now, stand up! Carry your stretcher and go on home, for you are healed.”" 
Luke5:25 In an instant, the man rose right before their eyes. He stood, picked up his stretcher, and went home, giving God the glory with every step he took." 
Luke5:26 The people were seized with astonishment and dumbfounded over what they had just witnessed. And they all praised God, remarking over and over, “Incredible! What an unbelievable miracle we’ve seen today!”" 
Luke5:27 Afterward, Jesus went out and looked for a man named Matthew. He found him sitting at his tax booth, for he was a tax collector. Jesus said to him, “Be my disciple and follow me.”" 
Luke5:27 Afterward, Jesus went out and looked for a man named Matthew. He found him sitting at his tax booth, for he was a tax collector. Jesus said to him, “Be my disciple and follow me.”" 
Luke5:28 That very moment, Matthew got up, left everything behind, and followed him." 
Luke5:28 That very moment, Matthew got up, left everything behind, and followed him." 
Luke5:29 Matthew wanted to throw a banquet to honor Jesus. So he invited Jesus to his home for dinner, along with many of Levi’s fellow tax collectors and other guests. But the Jewish religious leaders and experts of the law complained to Jesus’ disciples, “Why would you defile yourselves by eating and drinking with tax collectors and sinners? Doesn’t Jesus know it’s wrong to do that? ”" 
Luke5:29 Matthew wanted to throw a banquet to honor Jesus. So he invited Jesus to his home for dinner, along with many of Levi’s fellow tax collectors and other guests. But the Jewish religious leaders and experts of the law complained to Jesus’ disciples, “Why would you defile yourselves by eating and drinking with tax collectors and sinners? Doesn’t Jesus know it’s wrong to do that? ”" 
Luke5:30  
Luke5:31 Jesus overheard their complaining and said, “Who goes to the doctor for a cure? Those who are well or those who are sick?" 
Luke5:32 I have not come to call the ‘righteous,’ but to call those who know they are sinners and bring them to repentance.”" 
Luke5:33 Jesus’ critics questioned him. “John the prophet is known for leading his disciples to fast often and pray. As the religious leaders of the land, we do the same. Why do you and your disciples spend most of your time feasting at banquets?”" 
Luke5:33 Jesus’ critics questioned him. “John the prophet is known for leading his disciples to fast often and pray. As the religious leaders of the land, we do the same. Why do you and your disciples spend most of your time feasting at banquets?”" 
Luke5:34 Jesus replied, “Should you make the sons of the bridal chamber fast while celebrating with the Bridegroom?" 
Luke5:35 But when the Bridegroom is taken away from them, then you will see them fasting.”" 
Luke5:36 And he gave them this illustration: “No one rips up a new garment to make patches for an old, worn-out one. If you tear up the new to make a patch for the old, it would not match the old garment." 
Luke5:37 And who pours new wine into an old wineskin? If someone did, the old wineskin would burst and the new wine would be lost." 
Luke5:38 New wine must always be poured into new wineskins. 
Luke5:39 Yet you say, ‘The old ways are better,’ and you refuse to even taste the new wine that I bring.”" 
Luke6:1 One Sabbath day, Jesus and his disciples were walking through a field of ripe wheat. His disciples plucked some heads of grain, rubbed the husks off with their hands, and ate them." 
Luke6:2 This infuriated some of the Jewish religious leaders. They said to Jesus, “Why are you allowing your disciples to harvest grain on the Sabbath? Don’t you know it’s not permissible according to the law?”" 
Luke6:3 Jesus replied, “Haven’t you read the Scriptures? Haven’t you read what King David did when he was hungry?" 
Luke6:4 He entered the sanctuary of God, took the bread of God’s presence right off the sacred table, and shared it with his men. It was only lawful for the priests to eat the bread of God’s presence." 
Luke6:5 You need to know that the Son of Man is no slave to the Sabbath, for I am master over the Sabbath.”" 
Luke6:6 On another Sabbath, Jesus was teaching in the synagogue. In the room with him was a man with a deformed right hand. Everyone watched Jesus closely, especially the Jewish religious leaders and the religious scholars, to see if Jesus would heal on a Sabbath, for they were eager to find a reason to accuse him of breaking the Jewish laws." 
Luke6:7  
Luke6:8 Jesus, knowing their every thought, said to the man with the deformed hand, “Come and stand here in the middle of the room.” So he got up and came forward." 
Luke6:9 Jesus said to all who were there, “Let me ask you a question. Which is better: to heal or to do harm on the Sabbath? I have come to save a life, but you have come to find a life to destroy.”" 
Luke6:10 One by one Jesus looked into the eyes of each person in the room. Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your arm and open your hand!” With everyone watching intently, he stretched out his arm, and his hand was completely healed!" 
Luke6:11 The room erupted with bitter rage, and from that moment on, the religious leaders plotted among themselves about how they might harm Jesus." 
Luke6:12 After leaving the synagogue, Jesus went into the high hills to spend the whole night in prayer to God." 
Luke6:13 At daybreak, he called together all of his followers and selected twelve from among them, and he appointed them to be his apostles." 
Luke6:14 Here are their names: Simon, whom he named Peter; Andrew, Peter’s brother; Jacob; John; Philip; Bartholomew; Matthew; Thomas; Jacob the son of Alpheus; Simon, known as a fiery political zealot; Judah the son of Jacob; and Judas the locksmith, who later betrayed Jesus." 
Luke6:14 Here are their names: Simon, whom he named Peter; Andrew, Peter’s brother; Jacob; John; Philip; Bartholomew; Matthew; Thomas; Jacob the son of Alpheus; Simon, known as a fiery political zealot; Judah the son of Jacob; and Judas the locksmith, who later betrayed Jesus." 
Luke6:14 Here are their names: Simon, whom he named Peter; Andrew, Peter’s brother; Jacob; John; Philip; Bartholomew; Matthew; Thomas; Jacob the son of Alpheus; Simon, known as a fiery political zealot; Judah the son of Jacob; and Judas the locksmith, who later betrayed Jesus." 
Luke6:15  
Luke6:16  
Luke6:17 Jesus and his apostles came down from the hillside to a level field, where a large number of his disciples waited, along with a massive crowd: people from all over Judea, Jerusalem, and the coastal district of Tyre and Sidon." 
Luke6:17 Jesus and his apostles came down from the hillside to a level field, where a large number of his disciples waited, along with a massive crowd: people from all over Judea, Jerusalem, and the coastal district of Tyre and Sidon." 
Luke6:18 They had all come to listen to the Word so that they could be healed of their diseases and be set free from tormenting demonic powers. 
Luke6:19 The entire crowd eagerly tried to come near Jesus, to touch him to receive healing, because a tangible, supernatural power emanated from him and healed all who came close to him." 
Luke6:20 Looking intently at his followers, Jesus began his sermon. “How enriched you become when you are a beggar, for you will experience the reality of God’s kingdom." 
Luke6:21 “How filled you become when you are consumed with hunger and desire, for you will be completely satisfied. “How content you become when you weep with complete brokenness, for you will laugh with unrestrained joy." 
Luke6:22 “How favored you become when you are hated, excommunicated, or slandered, or when your name is spoken of as evil because of your love for me, the Son of Man." 
Luke6:23 “I promise you that as you experience these things, you will celebrate and dance with overflowing joy, and the heavenly reward of your faith will be abundant, because you are being treated the same way as your forefathers the prophets." 
Luke6:24 “But what sorrows await those of you who are rich in this life only, for you have already received all the comfort you’ll ever get." 
Luke6:25 “What sorrows await those of you who are content with yourselves, for hunger and emptiness will come to you. “What sorrows await those of you who laugh now, having received all your joy in this life only, for grief and wailing will come to you." 
Luke6:26 “What sorrows await those of you who are always honored and lauded by others, for that’s how your forefathers treated every false prophet.”" 
Luke6:27 “But I say to you who hear, love your enemies and do something wonderful for them in return for their hatred." 
Luke6:28 When someone curses you, bless that person in return. When others mistreat and harass you, accept it as your mission to pray for them." 
Luke6:29 To those who despise you, continue to serve them and minister to them. If someone takes away your coat, give him as a gift your shirt as well." 
Luke6:30 When someone comes to beg from you, give to that person what you have. When things are wrongly taken from you, do not demand they be given back." 
Luke6:31 The way you want others to treat you is how you should treat everyone else. 
Luke6:32 “Are you really showing true love by loving only those who love you? Even those who don’t know God will do that. 
Luke6:33 Are you really showing compassion when you do good deeds only to those who do good deeds to you? Even those who don’t know God will do that. 
Luke6:34 “If you lend money only to those you know will repay you, what credit is that to your character? Even those who don’t know God do that." 
Luke6:35 Rather love your enemies and continue to treat them well. When you lend money, don’t despair if you are never paid back, for it is not lost. You will receive a rich reward and you will be known as true children of the Most High God, having his same nature. Be like your Father who is famous for his kindness to heal even the thankless and cruel." 
Luke6:36 Overflow with mercy and compassion for others, just as your heavenly Father overflows with mercy and compassion for all.”" 
Luke6:37 Jesus said, “Forsake the habit of criticizing and judging others, and you will not be criticized and judged in return. Don’t condemn others and you will not be condemned. Forgive over and over, and you will be forgiven over and over." 
Luke6:38 Give generously and generous gifts will be given back to you, shaken down to make room for more. Abundant gifts will pour out upon you with such an overflowing measure that it will run over the top! The measurement of your generosity becomes the measurement of your return.”" 
Luke6:39 Jesus also quoted these proverbs: “What happens when a blind man pretends to guide another blind man? They both stumble into a ditch! 
Luke6:40 And how could the apprentice know more than his master, for only after he is fully qualified will he be at that level." 
Luke6:41 Why do you focus on the flaw in someone else’s life and fail to notice the glaring flaws of your own life? 
Luke6:42 How could you say to your friend, ‘Here, let me show you where you’re wrong,’ when you are guilty of even more than he? You are overly critical, splitting hairs and being a hypocrite! You must acknowledge your own blind spots and deal with them before you will be able to deal with the blind spot of your friend.”" 
Luke6:43 “You’ll never find choice fruit hanging on a bad, unhealthy tree. And rotten fruit doesn’t hang on a good, healthy tree." 
Luke6:44 Every tree will be revealed by the quality of fruit that it produces. You will never pick figs or grapes from thorn trees. 
Luke6:45 People are known in this same way. Out of the virtue stored in their hearts, good and upright people will produce good fruit. Likewise, out of the evil hidden in their hearts, evil ones will produce what is evil. For the overflow of what has been stored in your heart will be seen by your fruit and will be heard in your words." 
Luke6:46 “What good does it do for you to say I am your Lord and Master if you don’t put into practice what I teach you? 
Luke6:47 Let me describe the one who truly follows me and does what I say: 
Luke6:48 He is like a man who chooses the right place to build a house and then lays a deep and secure foundation. When the storms and floods rage against that house, it continues to stand strong and unshaken through the tempest, for he built it wisely on the right foundation." 
Luke6:49 But the one who has heard my teaching and does not obey it is like a man who builds a house without laying any foundation at all. When the storms and floods rage against that house, it will immediately collapse and become a total loss. Which of these two builders will you be? ”" 
Luke7:1 After Jesus finished giving revelation to the people on the hillside, he went on to Capernaum." 
Luke7:2 A Roman military captain there had a beloved servant whom he valued highly, and who was sick to the point of death. When the captain heard that Jesus was in the city, he sent some respected Jewish elders to plead with him to come and heal his dying servant." 
Luke7:3  
Luke7:4 So they came to Jesus and told him, “The Roman captain is a wonderful man. If anyone deserves a visit from you, it is him. Won’t you please come to his home and heal his servant?" 
Luke7:5 For he loves the Jewish people, and he even built our meeting hall for us.”" 
Luke7:6 Jesus started off with them, but on his way there, friends of the captain stopped him and delivered this message: “Master, don’t bother to come to me in person, for I am not good enough for you to enter my home. I’m not worthy enough to even come out to meet one like you. But if you would just speak the word of healing from right where you are, I know that my servant will be healed." 
Luke7:7  
Luke7:8 I am an ordinary man. Yet I understand the power of authority, and I see that authority operating through you. I have soldiers under me who obey everything I command. I also have authorities over me whom I likewise obey. So Master, just speak the word and healing will flow.”" 
Luke7:9 Jesus marveled at this. He turned around and said to the crowd who had followed him, “Listen, everyone! Never have I found among the people of God a man like this who believes so strongly in me.”" 
Luke7:10 Jesus then spoke the healing word from a distance. When the man’s friends returned to the home, they found the servant completely healed and doing fine." 
Luke7:11 Shortly afterward, Jesus left on a journey to the village of Nain, with a massive crowd of people following him, and his disciples." 
Luke7:12 As he approached the village, he met a multitude of people in a funeral procession, who were mourning as they carried the body of a young man to the cemetery. The boy was his mother’s only son, and she was a widow." 
Luke7:13 When the Lord saw the grieving mother, his heart broke for her. With great tenderness he said to her, “Please don’t cry.”" 
Luke7:14 Then he stepped up to the coffin and touched it. When the pallbearers came to a halt, Jesus spoke directly to the corpse, “Young man, I say to you, arise and live!”" 
Luke7:15 Immediately, the young man moved, sat up, and spoke to those nearby. Jesus presented the son to his mother, alive!" 
Luke7:16 A tremendous sense of holy mystery swept over the crowd. They shouted praises to God, saying, “God himself has blessed us by visiting his people! A great prophet has appeared among us!”" 
Luke7:17 The news of Jesus and this miracle raced throughout Judea and the entire surrounding region. 
Luke7:17 The news of Jesus and this miracle raced throughout Judea and the entire surrounding region. 
Luke7:18 John’s disciples reported to him in prison about all the wonderful miracles and the works Jesus was doing. 
Luke7:18 John’s disciples reported to him in prison about all the wonderful miracles and the works Jesus was doing. 
Luke7:19 So John dispatched two of his disciples to go and inquire of Jesus. 
Luke7:19 So John dispatched two of his disciples to go and inquire of Jesus. 
Luke7:20 When they came before the Master, they asked him, “Are you the coming Messiah we’ve been expecting, or are we to continue to look for someone else? John the prophet has sent us to you to seek your answer.”" 
Luke7:20 When they came before the Master, they asked him, “Are you the coming Messiah we’ve been expecting, or are we to continue to look for someone else? John the prophet has sent us to you to seek your answer.”" 
Luke7:21 Without answering, Jesus turned to the crowd and healed many of their incurable diseases. His miracle power freed many from their suffering. He restored the gift of sight to the blind, and he drove out demonic spirits from those who were tormented." 
Luke7:22 Only then did Jesus answer the question posed by John’s disciples. “Now go back and tell John what you have just seen and heard here today. The blind are now seeing. The crippled are now walking. Those who were lepers are now cured. Those who were deaf are now hearing. Those who were dead are now brought back to life. The poor and broken are given the hope of salvation. 
Luke7:22 Only then did Jesus answer the question posed by John’s disciples. “Now go back and tell John what you have just seen and heard here today. The blind are now seeing. The crippled are now walking. Those who were lepers are now cured. Those who were deaf are now hearing. Those who were dead are now brought back to life. The poor and broken are given the hope of salvation. 
Luke7:23 And tell John these words: ‘The blessing of heaven comes upon those who never lose their faith in me, no matter what happens.’ ”" 
Luke7:23 And tell John these words: ‘The blessing of heaven comes upon those who never lose their faith in me, no matter what happens.’ ”" 
Luke7:24 After John’s messengers departed, Jesus spoke about John to the audience crowded around him, saying, “What kind of man did you expect to see out in the wilderness? Did you expect to see a man who would be easily influenced and shaken by the shifting opinions of others?" 
Luke7:24 After John’s messengers departed, Jesus spoke about John to the audience crowded around him, saying, “What kind of man did you expect to see out in the wilderness? Did you expect to see a man who would be easily influenced and shaken by the shifting opinions of others?" 
Luke7:25 Who did you go there to see? Did you expect to see a man decked out in the splendid fashion of the day living in the lap of luxury? 
Luke7:26 Or did you discover a true prophet out in the lonely wilderness? Yes, John was a legitimate prophet. Even more than that," 
Luke7:26 Or did you discover a true prophet out in the lonely wilderness? Yes, John was a legitimate prophet. Even more than that," 
Luke7:27 he was the fulfillment of this Scripture: ‘See, I am sending my prophetic messenger who will go ahead of me to prepare hearts to receive me.’" 
Luke7:28 “Throughout history there was never found a man as great as John. Yet those who now walk in God’s kingdom realm, though they appear to be insignificant, will become even greater than he.”" 
Luke7:28 “Throughout history there was never found a man as great as John. Yet those who now walk in God’s kingdom realm, though they appear to be insignificant, will become even greater than he.”" 
Luke7:29 When the common and disreputable people among the audience heard Jesus say this, they acknowledged that it was the truth, for they had already experienced John’s baptism." 
Luke7:29 When the common and disreputable people among the audience heard Jesus say this, they acknowledged that it was the truth, for they had already experienced John’s baptism." 
Luke7:30 But the hearts of the Jewish religious leaders and experts of the law had rejected the clear purpose of God by refusing to be baptized by John. 
Luke7:30 But the hearts of the Jewish religious leaders and experts of the law had rejected the clear purpose of God by refusing to be baptized by John. 
Luke7:31 Jesus continued, saying, “How could I describe the people of this generation? Can’t you see?" 
Luke7:32 You’re like children playing games on the playground, complaining to friends, ‘You don’t like it when we want to play Wedding. And you don’t like it when we want to play Funeral. Why will you neither dance nor mourn?’" 
Luke7:33 “When the prophet John came fasting and refused to drink wine, you said, ‘He’s crazy! There’s a demon in him.’" 
Luke7:33 “When the prophet John came fasting and refused to drink wine, you said, ‘He’s crazy! There’s a demon in him.’" 
Luke7:34 Yet when the Son of Man came feasting and drinking, you said, ‘Look at this man! He is nothing but a glutton and a drunkard. He spends all his time with tax collectors and other notorious sinners.’" 
Luke7:35 “Nevertheless, the wisdom of God will be proven true by the expressions of godliness in everyone who follows me.”" 
Luke7:36 Afterward Simeon, a Jewish religious leader, asked Jesus to his home for dinner. Jesus accepted the invitation. When he went to Simeon’s home, he took his place at the table." 
Luke7:37 In the neighborhood there was an immoral woman of the streets, known to all to be a prostitute. When she heard that Jesus was at Simeon’s house, she took an exquisite flask made from alabaster, filled it with the most expensive perfume, went right into the home of the Jewish religious leader, and in front of all the guests, she knelt at the feet of Jesus." 
Luke7:38 Broken and weeping, she covered his feet with the tears that fell from her face. She kept crying and drying his feet with her long hair. Over and over she kissed Jesus’ feet. Then, as an act of worship, she opened her flask and anointed his feet with her costly perfume." 
Luke7:39 When Simeon saw what was happening, he thought, “This man can’t be a true prophet. If he were really a prophet, he would know what kind of sinful woman is touching him.”" 
Luke7:40 Jesus said, “Simeon, I have a word for you.” “Go ahead, Teacher. I want to hear it,” he answered." 
Luke7:41 “It’s a story about two men who were deeply in debt. One owed the bank one hundred thousand dollars, and the other only owed ten thousand dollars." 
Luke7:42 When it was obvious that neither of them would be able to repay their debts, the kind banker graciously wrote off the debts and forgave them all that they owed. Tell me, Simeon, which of the two debtors would be more thankful? Which one would love the banker most?”" 
Luke7:43 Simeon answered, “I suppose it would be the one with the greater debt forgiven.” “You’re right,” Jesus agreed." 
Luke7:44 Then he spoke to Simeon about the woman still weeping at his feet. “Do you see this woman kneeling here? She is doing for me what you didn’t bother to do. When I entered your home as your guest, you didn’t think about offering me water to wash the dust off my feet. Yet she came into your home and washed my feet with her many tears and then dried my feet with her hair." 
Luke7:45 You didn’t even welcome me into your home with the customary kiss of greeting, but from the moment I came in she has not stopped kissing my feet." 
Luke7:46 You didn’t take the time to anoint my head with fragrant oil, but she anointed my head and feet with the finest perfume." 
Luke7:47 She has been forgiven of all her many sins. This is why she has shown me such extravagant love. But those who assume they have very little to be forgiven will love me very little.” 
Luke7:48 Then Jesus said to the woman at his feet, “ All your sins are forgiven.”" 
Luke7:49 All the dinner guests said among themselves, “Who is the one who can even forgive sins?”" 
Luke7:50 Then Jesus said to the woman, “Your faith in me has given you life. Now you may leave and walk in the ways of peace.”" 
Luke8:1 Soon afterward, Jesus began a ministry tour throughout the country, visiting cities and villages to announce the wonderful news of God’s kingdom. His twelve disciples traveled with him" 
Luke8:2 as did a number of women who had been healed of many illnesses and set free from demonic power. One of the women was Mary who was from the village of Magdala, from whom Jesus had cast out seven demons. Among the women were Susanna and" 
Luke8:3 Joanna, the wife of Chusa, who managed King Herod’s household. Many other women who supported Jesus’ ministry from their own personal finances also traveled with him." 
Luke8:4 Massive crowds gathered from many towns to hear Jesus, and he taught them using metaphors and parables, such as this:" 
Luke8:5 “A farmer went out to sow seeds for a harvest. As he scattered his seeds, some of them fell on the hard pathway and were quickly trampled down and unable to grow and became nothing but bird seed." 
Luke8:6 Some fell on the gravel, and though they sprouted they couldn’t take root; it withered for lack of moisture." 
Luke8:7 Other seeds fell where there was nothing but weeds. They too were unable to grow to full maturity, for the weeds choked them out." 
Luke8:8 Yet some of the seeds fell into good, fertile soil, and they grew and flourished until they produced more than a hundredfold harvest, a bumper crop.” Then Jesus added, shouting out to all who would hear, “Listen with your heart and you will understand!”" 
Luke8:9 Later his disciples came to him privately to ask him what deeper meaning they could find in this parable. 
Luke8:10 He said, “You have been given a teachable heart to perceive the secret, hidden mysteries of God’s kingdom realm. But to those without a listening heart, my words are merely stories. Even though they have eyes, they are blind to the true meaning of what I say, and even though they listen, they won’t receive full revelation." 
Luke8:11 “Here, then, is the deeper meaning to my parable: The word of God is the seed that is sown into hearts." 
Luke8:12 The hard pathway represents the hard hearts of those who hear the word of God but the slanderer quickly snatches away what was sown in their hearts to keep them from believing and experiencing salvation. 
Luke8:13 The seeds falling on gravel represents those who initially respond to the word with joy, but soon afterward, when a season of difficulty and harassment of the enemy comes to them, they wither and fall away, for they have no root in the truth and their faith is temporary." 
Luke8:14 The seeds that fall into the weeds represents the hearts of those who hear the word of God but their growth is quickly choked off by their own anxious cares, the riches of this world, and the fleeting pleasures of this life. This is why they never become mature and fruitful." 
Luke8:15 The seed that fell into good, fertile soil represents those lovers of truth who hear it deep within their hearts. They respond by clinging to the word, keeping it dear as they endure all things in faith. This is the seed that will one day bear much fruit in their lives.”" 
Luke8:16 “No one lights a lamp and then hides it, covering it over or putting it where no one sees its light. No, he places the lamp on a lampstand so others benefit from its brightness." 
Luke8:17 Because this revelation lamp now shines within you, nothing will be hidden from you—it will all be revealed. Every secret of the kingdom will be unveiled and out in the open, made known by the revelation-light." 
Luke8:18 So pay careful attention to your hearts as you listen to my teaching, for to those who have open hearts, even more revelation will be given to them until it overflows. And for those who do not listen with open hearts, what little light they imagine themselves to have will be taken away.”" 
Luke8:19 Jesus’ mother and his brothers came to where Jesus was teaching, but they couldn’t get through the crowd that had gathered around him." 
Luke8:20 Someone told Jesus, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to speak with you.”" 
Luke8:21 Jesus told the crowd, “These who come to listen to me are like my mother and my brothers. They’re the ones who long to hear God’s words and put them into practice.”" 
Luke8:22 One day Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s get in a boat and go across to the other side of the lake.” So they set sail, and soon Jesus fell asleep. But a fierce wind arose and became a violent squall that threatened to swamp their boat." 
Luke8:23  
Luke8:24 Alarmed, the disciples woke Jesus up and said, “Master, Master, we’re sinking! Don’t you care that we’re going to drown?” With great authority Jesus rebuked the howling wind and surging waves, and instantly they became calm." 
Luke8:25 Then Jesus said to them, “Why are you fearful? Have you lost your faith in me?” Shocked, they said with amazement to one another, “Who is this man who has authority over winds and waves that they obey him?”" 
Luke8:26 As soon as they stepped ashore on the eastern side of the lake in the land of the Gerasenes, the disciples were confronted by a demon-possessed madman from a nearby town. Many times he had been put under guard and bound with chains, but the many demons inside him had repeatedly thrown him into convulsions, breaking his shackles and driving him out of the town into the countryside. He had been demonized for a long time and was living naked in a cemetery among the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he fell at his feet and screamed out, “What are you doing here? You are Jesus, the Son of the Most High God!” Jesus commanded the demons to come out of him, and they shouted, “We beg you, don’t torture us!”" 
Luke8:27  
Luke8:28  
Luke8:29  
Luke8:30 Jesus asked the man, “What is your name?” “Mob,” the demons answered. “We are a mob, for there are many of us here in this man." 
Luke8:31 We beg you, don’t banish us into the Abyss!”" 
Luke8:32 On the hillside nearby, there was a large herd of pigs, and the demons pleaded with Jesus, “Let us enter into the pigs.”" 
Luke8:33 So Jesus ordered all the “mob” of demons to come out of the man and enter the pigs. The crazed herd of swine stampeded over the cliff into the lake and all of them drowned. 
Luke8:34 When the herders tending the pigs saw what had happened, they ran off in fear and reported it to the nearby town and throughout the countryside." 
Luke8:35 Then the people of the region came out to see for themselves what had happened. When they came to where Jesus was, they discovered the notorious madman totally set free. He was clothed, speaking intelligently, and sitting at the feet of Jesus. They were shocked!" 
Luke8:36 Then eyewitnesses to the miracle reported all that they had seen and how Jesus completely delivered the demonized man from his torment. After hearing about such amazing power, the townspeople became frightened." 
Luke8:37 Soon all the people of the region of the Gerasenes and the surrounding country pleaded with Jesus to leave them, for they were gripped with fear. So Jesus got into the boat, intending to return to Galilee." 
Luke8:38 But the man who had been set free begged Jesus over and over not to leave, saying, “Let me be with you!” Jesus sent him away with these instructions:" 
Luke8:39 “Return to your home and your family, and tell them all the wonderful things God has done for you.” So the man went back and preached to everyone who would listen about the amazing miracle Jesus had worked in his life." 
Luke8:40 When Jesus returned to Galilee, the crowds were overjoyed, for they had been waiting for him to arrive." 
Luke8:41 Just then, a man named Jairus, the leader of the local Jewish congregation, fell before Jesus’ feet. He desperately begged him to come and heal his twelve-year-old daughter, his only child, because she was at the point of death. As Jesus started to go with him to his home to see her, a large crowd surrounded him." 
Luke8:42  
Luke8:43 In the crowd that day was a woman who had suffered greatly for twelve years from slow bleeding. Even though she had spent all that she had on healers, she was still suffering." 
Luke8:44 Pressing in through the crowd, she came up behind Jesus and touched the fringe of his garment. Instantly her bleeding stopped and she was healed." 
Luke8:45 Jesus suddenly stopped and said to his disciples, “Someone touched me. Who was it?” While they all denied it, Peter pointed out, “Master, everyone is touching you, trying to get close to you. The crowds are so thick we can’t walk through all these people without being jostled.”" 
Luke8:46 Jesus replied, “Yes, but I felt power surge through me. Someone touched me to be healed, and they received their healing.”" 
Luke8:47 When the woman realized she couldn’t hide any longer, she came and fell trembling at Jesus’ feet. Before the entire crowd she declared, “I was desperate to touch you, Jesus, for I knew if I could just touch even the fringe of your garment I would be healed.”" 
Luke8:48 Jesus responded, “Beloved daughter, your faith in me released your healing. You may go with my peace.”" 
Luke8:49 While Jesus was still speaking to the woman, someone came from Jairus’ house and told him, “There’s no need to bother the Master any further. Your daughter has passed away. She’s gone.”" 
Luke8:50 When Jesus heard this, he turned to Jairus and said, “Don’t yield to your fear. Have faith in me and she will live again.”" 
Luke8:51 When they arrived at the house, Jesus allowed only Peter, John, and Jacob—along with the child’s parents—to go inside." 
Luke8:51 When they arrived at the house, Jesus allowed only Peter, John, and Jacob—along with the child’s parents—to go inside." 
Luke8:52 Jesus told those left outside, who were sobbing and wailing with grief, “Stop crying. She is not dead; she’s just asleep and must be awakened.”" 
Luke8:53 They laughed at him, knowing for certain that she had died." 
Luke8:54 Jesus approached the body, took the girl by her hand, and called out with a loud voice, “My sleeping child, awake! Rise up!”" 
Luke8:55 Instantly her spirit returned to her body and she stood up. Jesus directed her stunned parents to give her something to eat and ordered them to tell no one what just happened. 
Luke8:56  
Luke9:1 Jesus summoned together his twelve apostles and imparted to them authority over every demon and the power to heal every disease. 
Luke9:2 Then he commissioned them to proclaim God’s kingdom and to heal the sick to demonstrate that the kingdom had arrived. As he sent them out, he gave them these instructions:" 
Luke9:3 “Take nothing extra on your journey. Just go as you are. Don’t carry a staff, a backpack, food, money, not even a change of clothes." 
Luke9:4 Whatever home welcomes you as a guest, remain there and make it your base of ministry." 
Luke9:5 And wherever your ministry is rejected, you are to leave that town and shake the dust off your shoes as a testimony before them.”" 
Luke9:6 The apostles departed and went into the villages with the wonderful news of God’s kingdom, and they healed diseases wherever they went." 
Luke9:7 Now, Herod, the governor, was confused and perplexed when he heard reports of all the miracles of Jesus and his apostles. Many were saying, “John the Baptizer has come back to life!”" 
Luke9:7 Now, Herod, the governor, was confused and perplexed when he heard reports of all the miracles of Jesus and his apostles. Many were saying, “John the Baptizer has come back to life!”" 
Luke9:8 Others said, “This has to be Elijah who has reappeared or one of the prophets of old who has risen from the dead.” These were the rumors circulating throughout the land. Herod exclaimed," 
Luke9:9 “Who is this Man? I keep hearing about him over and over. It can’t be the prophet John; I had him beheaded!” So, Herod was very eager to meet Jesus." 
Luke9:9 “Who is this Man? I keep hearing about him over and over. It can’t be the prophet John; I had him beheaded!” So, Herod was very eager to meet Jesus." 
Luke9:10 Months later, the apostles returned from their ministry tour and told Jesus all the wonders and miracles they had witnessed. Jesus, wanting to be alone with the Twelve, quietly slipped away with them toward Bethsaida." 
Luke9:11 Crowds soon found out about it and took off after him. When they caught up with Jesus, he graciously welcomed them all, taught them more about God’s kingdom, and healed all who were sick." 
Luke9:12 As the day wore on, the Twelve came to Jesus and told him, “It’s getting late. You should send the crowds to the surrounding villages and farms to get something to eat and find shelter for the night. There’s nothing to eat here in the middle of nowhere.”" 
Luke9:13 Jesus responded, “You have the food to feed them.” They replied, “All we have are these five small loaves of bread and two dried fish. Do you really expect us to go buy food for all these people?" 
Luke9:14 There are nearly five thousand men here, with women and children besides!” He told his disciples, “Have them all sit down in groups of fifty each.”" 
Luke9:15 After everyone was seated, Jesus took the five loaves and two fish, and gazing into the heavenly realm he gave thanks for the food. Then, in the presence of his disciples, he broke off pieces of bread and fish, and kept giving more to each disciple to give to the crowd. It was multiplying before their eyes!" 
Luke9:16  
Luke9:17 So everyone ate until they were filled, and afterward the disciples gathered up the leftovers—it came to exactly twelve baskets full!" 
Luke9:18 One time, Jesus was praying in a quiet place with his disciples nearby. He went to them and asked, “Who do people think I am?”" 
Luke9:19 They answered, “Some are convinced you’re the prophet John who has returned. Others say you are Elijah, or perhaps one of the Jewish prophets brought back from the dead.”" 
Luke9:19 They answered, “Some are convinced you’re the prophet John who has returned. Others say you are Elijah, or perhaps one of the Jewish prophets brought back from the dead.”" 
Luke9:20 Jesus asked them, “But who do you believe that I am?” Peter said, “You are the Anointed One, God’s Messiah!”" 
Luke9:21 Jesus gave them strict orders not to tell this to anyone yet, saying," 
Luke9:22 “The Son of Man is destined to experience great suffering and face complete rejection by the Jewish leaders and religious hierarchy. He will be killed and raised back to life on the third day.” 
Luke9:23 Jesus said to all of his followers, “If you truly desire to be my disciple, you must disown your life completely, embrace my ‘cross’ as your own, and surrender to my ways." 
Luke9:24 For if you choose self-sacrifice, giving up your lives for my glory, you will discover true life. But if you choose to keep your lives for yourselves, you will lose what you try to keep." 
Luke9:25 Even if you gained all the wealth and power of this world, and all the things it could offer you, yet lost your soul in the process, what good is that?" 
Luke9:26 So why then are you ashamed of being my disciple? Are you ashamed of the revelation-truth I give to you? “I, the Son of Man, will one day return in my radiant brightness, with the holy angels and in the splendor and majesty of my Father. On that day I will be ashamed of everyone who has been ashamed of me." 
Luke9:27 “I promise you this: there are some of you standing here right now who will not die until you have witnessed the presence and the power of God’s kingdom realm.” 
Luke9:28 Eight days later, Jesus took Peter, Jacob, and John and climbed a high mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 Eight days later, Jesus took Peter, Jacob, and John and climbed a high mountain to pray." 
Luke9:29 As he prayed, his face began to glow until a blinding glory streamed from him. A radiant glory illuminated his entire body. His brightness became so intense that it made his clothing blinding white, as multiple flashes of lightning." 
Luke9:30 All at once, two men appeared in glorious splendor: Moses and Elijah. They spoke with Jesus about his soon departure from this world and the things the Father destined him to accomplish in Jerusalem." 
Luke9:31  
Luke9:32 Peter and his companions had become very drowsy, but they became fully awake when they saw the glory and splendor of Jesus standing there and the two men with him." 
Luke9:33 As Moses and Elijah were about to return to heaven, Peter impetuously blurted, “Master, this is amazing to see the three of you together! Why don’t we stay here and set up three shelters: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah?”" 
Luke9:34 While Peter was still speaking, a radiant cloud of glory formed above them and overshadowed them. As the glory cloud enveloped them, they were struck with fear." 
Luke9:35 Then the voice of God thundered from within the cloud, “This is my Son, my Beloved One. Listen carefully to all he has to say.”" 
Luke9:36 When the thunderous voice faded away and the cloud disappeared, Jesus was standing there alone. Peter, Jacob, and John were awestruck. But they didn’t say a word to anyone about what they had seen." 
Luke9:36 When the thunderous voice faded away and the cloud disappeared, Jesus was standing there alone. Peter, Jacob, and John were awestruck. But they didn’t say a word to anyone about what they had seen." 
Luke9:37 The next day, a massive crowd was waiting at the foot of the mountain to meet them." 
Luke9:38 A man in the crowd shouted desperately, “Please, Teacher, I beg of you, do something about my son, my only son." 
Luke9:39 An evil spirit possesses him and makes him scream out in torment, and hardly ever leaves him alone. It throws him into convulsions and he foams at the mouth. When it finally does leave him, he’s left with horrible bruises." 
Luke9:40 I begged your disciples to drive it out of him, but they didn’t have enough power to do it.”" 
Luke9:41 Jesus responded, “You are an unbelieving people with no faith! You twist your lives with lies that have turned you away from doing the right things. How much longer should I remain here, offering you hope?” Then he said to the man, “Bring your son to me.”" 
Luke9:42 As the boy approached, the demon slammed him to the ground and threw him into violent convulsions. Jesus sternly commanded the demon to come out of the boy, and it left immediately. Jesus healed the boy of his injuries and returned him to his father, saying, “Here is your son.”" 
Luke9:43 Everyone was awestruck and stunned to see such power and the majesty of God flow through Jesus. 
Luke9:44 Everyone marveled, trying to process what they had just witnessed. Jesus then turned to his disciples and said, “Listen carefully and let these words sink into your hearts. The Son of Man is about to be betrayed and surrendered to the authority of men.”" 
Luke9:45 But the disciples could not grasp the meaning of what he was saying, for it was a veiled mystery to them, and they were too embarrassed to ask him to explain it." 
Luke9:46 The disciples began to argue and became preoccupied over who would be the greatest one among them. 
Luke9:47 Fully aware of their innermost thoughts, Jesus called a little child to his side and said to them," 
Luke9:48 “If you tenderly care for this little child on my behalf, you are tenderly caring for me. And if you care for me, you are honoring my Father who sent me. The one who is least important in your eyes is actually the most important one of all.”" 
Luke9:49 The disciple John said, “Master, we found someone casting out demons using your name and we tried to stop him, because he doesn’t follow you as we do.”" 
Luke9:49 The disciple John said, “Master, we found someone casting out demons using your name and we tried to stop him, because he doesn’t follow you as we do.”" 
Luke9:50 Jesus responded, “You shouldn’t have hindered him, for anyone who is not against you is your friend.”" 
Luke9:51 Jesus let nothing distract him from departing for Jerusalem because the time for him to be lifted up drew near, and he was full of passion to complete his mission there." 
Luke9:52 So he sent messengers ahead of him as envoys to a village of the Samaritans. 
Luke9:53 But as they approached the village, the people turned them away. They would not allow Jesus to enter, for he was on his way to worship in Jerusalem." 
Luke9:54 When the disciples Jacob and John realized what was happening, they returned to Jesus and said, “Lord, if you wanted to, you could command fire to fall down from heaven, just as Elijah did and destroy all these wicked people.”" 
Luke9:54 When the disciples Jacob and John realized what was happening, they returned to Jesus and said, “Lord, if you wanted to, you could command fire to fall down from heaven, just as Elijah did and destroy all these wicked people.”" 
Luke9:55 Jesus rebuked them sharply, saying, “Don’t you realize what spews from your hearts when you say that? The Son of Man did not come to destroy life, but to bring life to the earth.”" 
Luke9:56 So they went to another village instead. 
Luke9:57 On their way, someone came up to Jesus and said, “I want to follow you wherever you go.”" 
Luke9:58 Jesus replied, “Yes, but remember this: even animals in the field have holes in the ground to sleep in, and birds have their nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay down his head.”" 
Luke9:59 Jesus then turned to another and said, “Come be my disciple.” He replied, “Someday I will, Lord, but allow me first to fulfill my duty as a good son and wait until my father passes away.”" 
Luke9:60 Jesus told him, “Don’t wait for your father’s burial. Let those who are already dead wait for death. As for you, go and proclaim everywhere that God’s kingdom has arrived.”" 
Luke9:61 Still another said to him, “Lord, I want to follow you too. But first let me go home and say good-bye to my entire family.”" 
Luke9:62 Jesus responded, “Why do you keep looking back to your past and have second thoughts about following me? If you turn back you are not fit for God’s kingdom.”" 
Luke10:1 After this, the Lord Jesus formed thirty-five teams among the other disciples. Each team was two disciples, seventy in all, and he commissioned them to go ahead of him into every town he was about to visit." 
Luke10:2 He released them with these instructions: “The harvest is huge. But there are not enough harvesters to bring it in. As you go, plead with the Owner of the Harvest to send out many more workers into his harvest fields." 
Luke10:3 Now, off you go! I am sending you out even though you feel as vulnerable as lambs going into a pack of wolves." 
Luke10:4 You won’t need to take anything with you—trust in God alone. And don’t get distracted from my purpose by anyone you might meet along the way. 
Luke10:5 “Once you enter a house, speak to the people there and say, ‘God’s blessing of peace be upon this house!’" 
Luke10:6 If a lover of peace resides there, your peace will rest upon that household. But if you are rejected, your blessing of peace will come back upon you." 
Luke10:7 Don’t shift from one house to another, but stay in one home during your time in that city. Eat and drink whatever they serve you. Receive their hospitality, for you are my harvester, and you deserve to be cared for." 
Luke10:8 “When you enter into a new town, and you have been welcomed by its people, follow these rules: Eat what is served you." 
Luke10:9 Heal the sick, and tell them all, ‘God’s kingdom has arrived and is now within your reach!’" 
Luke10:10 But when you enter a city and they do not receive you, say to them publicly," 
Luke10:11 ‘We wipe from our feet the very dust of your streets as a testimony before you! Understand this: God’s kingdom came within your reach and yet you have rejected God’s invitation!’ ” 
Luke10:12 Jesus continued, “Let me say it clearly: on the day of judgment the wicked people of Sodom will have a lesser degree of judgment than the city that rejects you, for Sodom did not have the opportunity that was given to them.”" 
Luke10:13 “How disastrous it will be for the city of Korazin! How horrible for the city of Bethsaida! For if the powerful miracles that I performed in Korazin and Bethsaida had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have humbled themselves, repented, and turned from their sins." 
Luke10:14 Tyre and Sidon will face a lesser degree of judgment than you will on the day of judgment. 
Luke10:15 And Capernaum! Do you really think you’ll be highly exalted because of the great things I have done there? No! You’ll be brought down to the depths of hell because of your rejection of me!” 
Luke10:16 Jesus concluded his instructions to the seventy with these words: “Remember this: Whoever listens to your message is actually listening to me. And anyone who rejects you is rejecting me, and not only me but the one who sent me.”" 
Luke10:17 When the seventy missionaries returned to Jesus, they were ecstatic with joy, telling him, “Lord, even the demons obeyed us when we commanded them in your name!”" 
Luke10:18 Jesus replied, “ While you were ministering, I watched Satan topple until he fell suddenly from heaven like lightning to the ground." 
Luke10:19 Now you understand that I have imparted to you my authority to trample over his kingdom. You will trample upon every demon before you and overcome every power Satan possesses. Absolutely nothing will harm you as you walk in this authority. 
Luke10:20 However, your real source of joy isn’t merely that these spirits submit to your authority, but that your names are written in the journals of heaven and that you belong to God’s kingdom. This is the true source of your authority.”" 
Luke10:21 Then Jesus, overflowing with the Holy Spirit’s joy, exclaimed, “Father, thank you, for you are Lord Supreme over heaven and earth! You have hidden the great revelation of this authority from those who are proud, those wise in their own eyes, and you have shared it with these who humbled themselves. Yes, Father. This is what pleases your heart: to give these things to those who are like trusting children." 
Luke10:22 “Father, you have entrusted me with all that you have. No one fully knows the Son except the Father. And no one fully knows the Father except the Son. But the Son is able to reveal the Father to anyone he chooses.”" 
Luke10:23 When Jesus was alone with the Twelve, he said to them, “You are privileged to see and hear all these things." 
Luke10:24 Many kings and prophets of old longed to see these days of miracles that you’ve been favored to see. They would have given everything to hear the revelation you’ve been favored to hear. Yet they didn’t get to see a glimpse or hear even a whisper.” 
Luke10:25 Just then a religious scholar stood before Jesus in order to test his doctrines. He posed this question: “Teacher, what requirement must I fulfill if I want to live forever in heaven?”" 
Luke10:26 Jesus replied, “What do you read in the Law? How do you understand it?”" 
Luke10:27 The religious scholar answered, “It states, ‘You must love the Lord God with all your heart, all your passion, all your energy, and your every thought. And you must love your neighbor as yourself.’ ”" 
Luke10:28 Jesus said, “That is correct. Now go and do exactly that and you will live.”" 
Luke10:29 Wanting to justify himself, he questioned Jesus further, saying, “What do you mean by ‘my neighbor’?”" 
Luke10:30 Jesus replied, “There was once a Jewish man traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho when bandits robbed him along the way. They beat him severely, stripped him naked, and left him half dead." 
Luke10:31 “Soon, a Jewish priest walking down the same road came upon the wounded man. Seeing him from a distance, the priest crossed to the other side of the road and walked right past him, not turning to help him one bit." 
Luke10:32 “Later, a religious man, a Levite, came walking down the same road and likewise crossed to the other side to pass by the wounded man without stopping to help him." 
Luke10:33 “Finally, another man, a Samaritan, came upon the bleeding man and was moved with tender compassion for him." 
Luke10:34 He stooped down and gave him first aid, pouring olive oil on his wounds, disinfecting them with wine, and bandaging them to stop the bleeding. Lifting him up, he placed him on his own donkey and brought him to an inn. Then he took him from his donkey and carried him to a room for the night." 
Luke10:35 The next morning he took his own money from his wallet and gave it to the innkeeper with these words: ‘Take care of him until I come back from my journey. If it costs more than this, I will repay you when I return.’" 
Luke10:36 So, now, tell me, which one of the three men who saw the wounded man proved to be the true neighbor?”" 
Luke10:37 The religious scholar responded, “The one who demonstrated kindness and mercy.” Jesus said, “Go and do the same as he.”" 
Luke10:38 As Jesus and the disciples continued on their journey, they came to a village where a woman welcomed Jesus into her home. Her name was Martha and she had a sister named Mary. Mary sat down attentively before the Master, absorbing every revelation he shared." 
Luke10:39  
Luke10:40 But Martha became exasperated with finishing the numerous household chores in preparation for her guests, so she interrupted Jesus and said, “Lord, don’t you think it’s unfair that my sister left me to do all the work by myself? You should tell her to get up and help me.”" 
Luke10:41 The Lord answered her, “Martha, my beloved Martha. Why are you upset and troubled, pulled away by all these many distractions?" 
Luke10:42 Mary has discovered the one thing most important by choosing to sit at my feet. She is undistracted, and I won’t take this privilege from her.”" 
Luke11:1 One day, as Jesus was in prayer, one of his disciples came over to him as he finished and said, “Would you teach us a model prayer that we can pray, just as John did for his disciples?”" 
Luke11:1 One day, as Jesus was in prayer, one of his disciples came over to him as he finished and said, “Would you teach us a model prayer that we can pray, just as John did for his disciples?”" 
Luke11:2 So Jesus taught them this prayer: “Our heavenly Father, may the glory of your name be the center on which our life turns. May your Holy Spirit come upon us and cleanse us. Manifest your kingdom on earth." 
Luke11:3 And give us our needed bread for the coming day. 
Luke11:4 Forgive our sins as we ourselves release forgiveness to those who have wronged us. And rescue us every time we face tribulations.” 
Luke11:5 Then Jesus gave this illustration: “Imagine what would happen if you were to go to one of your friends in the middle of the night, pound on his door, and shout, ‘Please! Do you have some food you can spare?" 
Luke11:6 A friend just arrived at my house unexpectedly and I have nothing to serve him.’ 
Luke11:7 But your friend says, ‘Why are you bothering me? The door is locked and my family and I are all in bed. Do you expect me to get up and give you our food?’" 
Luke11:8 I tell you—because of your shameless persistence, even though it’s the middle of the night, your friend will get up out of his bed and give you all that you need." 
Luke11:9 So it is with your prayers. Ask and you’ll receive. Seek and you’ll discover. Knock on heaven’s door, and it will one day open for you. Every persistent person will receive what he asks for. Every persistent seeker will discover what he needs. And everyone who knocks persistently will one day find an open door." 
Luke11:10  
Luke11:11 “Let me ask you this: Do you know of any father who would give his son a snake on a plate when he asked for a serving of fish? Of course not! 
Luke11:12 Do you know of any father who would give his daughter a spider when she had asked for an egg? Of course not! 
Luke11:13 If imperfect parents know how to lovingly take care of their children and give them what they need, how much more will the perfect heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit’s fullness when his children ask him.”" 
Luke11:14 One day a crowd gathered around Jesus, and among them was a man who was mute. Jesus drove out of the man the spirit that made him unable to speak. When the demon left him, the mute man’s tongue was loosed and immediately he was able to speak. The stunned crowd saw it all and marveled in amazement over this miracle!" 
Luke11:15 But there were some in the crowd who protested, saying, “He casts out demons by the power of Satan, the demon king.”" 
Luke11:16 Others were skeptical and tried to persuade Jesus to perform a spectacular display of power to prove that he was the Messiah. 
Luke11:17 Jesus, well aware of their every thought, said to them, “Every kingdom that is split against itself is doomed to fail and will eventually collapse." 
Luke11:18 If it is true that Satan casts out his own demons through me, how could his kingdom remain intact?" 
Luke11:19 If Satan gives me the power to cast out his demons, who is it that gives your exorcists their power? Let them become your judges! Go, ask them, and they will tell you." 
Luke11:20 But if I am casting out demons by God’s mighty power, God’s kingdom is now released upon you— but you still reject it!" 
Luke11:21 “When a strong man, with many weapons, guards his palace, his possessions are safe." 
Luke11:22 But when one stronger than he comes to attack and overpower him, the stronger one will empty the arsenal in which he trusted. The conqueror will ransack his kingdom and distribute all the spoils of victory." 
Luke11:23 Whoever is not on my side is against me, and whoever does not gather the spoils with me will be forever scattered." 
Luke11:24 “When a demon is cast out of a person, it goes to wander in a waterless realm, searching for rest. But finding no place to rest, it says, ‘I will go back and reoccupy the body I left.’" 
Luke11:25 When it returns, it finds the person like a house swept clean and made tidy, but empty." 
Luke11:26 Then it goes and enlists seven demons more evil than itself, and they all enter and possess the person, leaving that one in a much worse state than before.”" 
Luke11:27 While he was saying all this, a woman shouted from the crowd, “God bless the one who gave you birth and nursed you as a child!”" 
Luke11:28 “Yes,” said Jesus, “but God will bless all who listen to the word of God and carefully obey everything they hear.”" 
Luke11:29 As the crowds continued to swell, Jesus went on to say, “How evil is this generation! When you demand a mighty display of power simply to prove who I am, you demonstrate your unbelief. The only sign you will see will be a repeat of the miracle of Jonah." 
Luke11:30 In the same way Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so the Son of Man will be a sign to this generation." 
Luke11:31 “The Queen of Sheba will rise up on the day of judgment to accuse and condemn this generation for its unbelief. She journeyed from a far and distant land just to listen to the wisdom of King Solomon. One greater than Solomon speaks with you today, but you refuse to listen." 
Luke11:32 Yes, the people of Nineveh will also rise up on the day of judgment to accuse and condemn this generation. For they all repented when they heard the preaching of Jonah, but you refuse to repent. Yet there is one greater than Jonah who is preaching to you today.”" 
Luke11:33 “No one would think of lighting a lamp and then hiding it in the basement where no one would benefit. A lamp belongs on a lampstand, where all who enter may see its light." 
Luke11:34 The eyes of your spirit allow revelation-light to enter into your being. When your heart is open the light floods in. But when your heart is hard and closed, the light cannot penetrate and darkness takes its place." 
Luke11:35 Open your heart and consider my words. Watch out that you do not mistake your opinions for revelation-light! 
Luke11:36 If your spirit burns with light, fully illuminated with no trace of darkness, you will be a shining lamp, reflecting rays of truth by the way you live.”" 
Luke11:37 After Jesus finished saying these things, a Pharisee asked him to come for a meal at his home. When everyone had been seated at the table, the religious leader noticed that Jesus had not performed the cleansing ritual before he began eating. He was shocked." 
Luke11:38  
Luke11:39 The Lord said, “You Pharisees are like those who will wipe clean only the outside of a cup or bowl, leaving the inside filthy." 
Luke11:40 You are foolish to ignore the greed and wickedness within you! Shouldn’t the one who cleans the outside also clean the inside? 
Luke11:41 If you free your heart of greed, show compassion and true generosity to the poor, you will have more than clean hands; you will be clean within." 
Luke11:42 “You Pharisees are hypocrites! For you are obsessed with peripheral issues, like paying meticulous tithes on the smallest herbs that grow in your gardens. Of course, these matters you should do, but when you unjustly cheat others, you ignore the most important duty of all: to walk in the love of God. Readjust your values and place first things first." 
Luke11:43 “You Pharisees are hypocrites! You love to be honored before others with titles of respect, seeking public recognition, aspiring to seem more important than others." 
Luke11:44 “You Pharisees, what hypocrites! Your true character is hidden, like an unmarked grave that hides the corruption inside, defiling all who come in contact with you.”" 
Luke11:45 Just then a specialist in interpreting religious law blurted out, “Teacher, don’t you realize that your words insult us?!”" 
Luke11:46 Jesus responded, “You are also hypocrites, you experts of the law! You crush people beneath the burden of obeying impossible religious regulations, yet you would never even think of doing them yourselves." 
Luke11:47 What hypocrites! You build monuments to honor the prophets of old, yet it was your murdering ancestors who killed them. The only prophet you’ll honor is a dead one!" 
Luke11:48 In fact, by erecting monuments to the prophets your ancestors killed, you demonstrate your agreement with those murderers and bear witness to their deeds. You’re no better than they!" 
Luke11:49 That is why God’s wisdom is proclaiming: ‘I will send to them apostles and prophets though some they will murder and others they will persecute.’ 
Luke11:50 “God will hold this generation accountable for every drop of blood of every murdered prophet shed from the beginning of time until now," 
Luke11:51 from the blood of Abel, who was killed by his brother, to the blood of Zechariah, who was murdered in the middle of the temple court. Yes, I tell you, you will be responsible for it all." 
Luke11:52 “You are nothing but hypocrites, you experts of religion! You take away from others the key that opens the door to the house of knowledge. Not only do you lock the door and refuse to enter, but you also do your best to keep others from the truth.”" 
Luke11:53 All that Jesus said enraged the religious leaders and experts of the law and they began to oppose him furiously. They harassed Jesus all the way out the door, spewing out their hostility, arguing over everything he said—wanting nothing more than to find a reason to entrap him with his own words." 
Luke11:54  
Luke12:1 By now a crowd of many thousands had gathered around Jesus. So many people pushed to be near him, they began to trample one another. Jesus turned to his disciples and warned them, “Beware of the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. It permeates everything they do and teach, like leaven." 
Luke12:2 Everything hidden and covered up will soon be exposed. For the facade is falling down, and nothing will be kept secret for long." 
Luke12:3 Whatever you have spoken in private will be public knowledge, and what you have whispered secretly behind closed doors will be broadcast far and wide for all to hear." 
Luke12:4 “Listen, my beloved friends, don’t fear those who may want to take your life but can do nothing more. It’s true that they may kill your body, but they have no power over your soul." 
Luke12:5 The one you must fear is God, for he has both the power to take your life and the authority to cast your soul into hell. Yes, the only one you need to fear is God." 
Luke12:6 “What is the value of your soul to God? Could your worth be defined by any amount of money? God doesn’t abandon or forget even the small sparrow he has made. How then could he forget or abandon you? What about the seemingly minor issues of your life? Do they matter to God? Of course they do! So you never need to worry, for you are more valuable to God than anything else in this world." 
Luke12:7  
Luke12:8 “I can assure you of this: If you freely declare in public that I am the Son of Man, the Messiah, then I will freely declare to all the angels of God that you are mine." 
Luke12:9 But if you publicly pretend that you don’t know me, I will deny you before the angels of God." 
Luke12:10 If anyone speaks evil of me, the Son of Man, that one can be forgiven. But if anyone speaks scornfully against the Holy Spirit, it will never be forgiven." 
Luke12:11 And remember this: When people publicly accuse you and forcefully drag you before the religious leaders and authorities, do not be troubled. Don’t worry about defending yourself or how to answer their accusations." 
Luke12:12 Simply be confident and allow the Spirit of Wisdom access to your heart, and in that very moment he will reveal what you are to say to them.”" 
Luke12:13 Just then someone spoke up from the crowd and said, “Master, you should compel my older brother to divide the family inheritance and give me my fair share!”" 
Luke12:14 Jesus answered, “My friend, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?”" 
Luke12:15 Speaking to the people, Jesus continued, “Be alert and guard your heart from greed and from always wishing for what you don’t have. For your life can never be measured by the amount of things you possess.”" 
Luke12:16 Jesus then gave them this illustration: “A wealthy land owner had a farm that produced bumper crops. Every year the harvest was so great it filled his barns to overflowing! 
Luke12:17 He thought, ‘What should I do now that every barn is full and I have nowhere else to store more?" 
Luke12:18 I know what I’ll do! I’ll tear down the barns and build one massive barn to hold all my grain and goods. 
Luke12:19 Then I can just sit back, surrounded with comfort and ease. I’ll enjoy life with no worries at all.’" 
Luke12:20 “God said to him, ‘What a fool you are to trust in your riches and not in me! This very night the messengers of death will demand to take your life. Then who will get all the wealth you have stored up for yourself?’" 
Luke12:21 The same thing will happen to all those who fill up their lives with everything but God.” 
Luke12:22 Jesus taught his disciples, saying, “Listen to me. Never let anxiety enter your hearts. Never worry about any of your needs, such as food or clothing." 
Luke12:23 For your life is infinitely more than just the food you eat or the clothing you wear. 
Luke12:24 Take the carefree birds as your example. Do you ever see them worry? They neither grow their own food nor put it in a storehouse for later. Yet God takes care of every one of them, feeding each of them out of the abundance of his love and goodness. Isn’t your life more precious to God than a bird? Be carefree in the care of God!" 
Luke12:25 “Does worry add anything to your life? Can it add one more year, or even one day?" 
Luke12:26 So if worrying adds nothing, but actually subtracts from your life, why would you worry about God’s care of you?" 
Luke12:27 “Think about the lilies. They grow and become beautiful, not because they work hard or strive to clothe themselves. Yet not even Solomon, wearing his kingly garments of splendor, could be compared to a field of lilies." 
Luke12:28 If God can clothe the fields and meadows with grass and flowers, can he not clothe you as well, O struggling one with so many doubts?" 
Luke12:29 I repeat: Don’t let worry enter your life. Live above the anxious cares about your personal needs. 
Luke12:30 People everywhere seem to worry about making a living, but your heavenly Father knows your every need and will take care of you." 
Luke12:31 As you passionately seek his kingdom, above all else, he will supply your needs." 
Luke12:32 So don’t ever be afraid, dearest friends! Your loving Father joyously gives you his kingdom with all its promises!" 
Luke12:33 “Now, go and sell what you have and give to those in need; you will be making deposits in your account in heaven, an account that will never be taken from you. Your gifts will become a secure and unfailing treasure, deposited in heaven forever." 
Luke12:34 Where you deposit your treasure, that is where you fix your thoughts—and your heart will long to be there also.”" 
Luke12:35 “Be prepared for action at a moment’s notice. 
Luke12:36 Be like servants anticipating their master’s return from a wedding celebration. They are ready at a moment’s notice to unlock and open the door for him. 
Luke12:37 What great joy is ahead for those who stay awake and wait for their Master’s return! He himself will become their servant and wait on them. 
Luke12:38 He may appear at midnight or even later, but what great joy for the awakened ones whenever he comes!" 
Luke12:39 Of course, if they knew ahead of time the hour of their master’s appearing, they would be alert, just as they would be ready if they knew ahead of time that a thief was coming to break into their house." 
Luke12:40 So keep being alert and ready at all times. For I promise you that the Son of Man will surprise you and appear when you don’t expect him.” 
Luke12:41 “Lord,” Peter asked, “does this apply only to the twelve of us, or is it for everyone else as well?”" 
Luke12:42 The Lord replied, “A master will delegate authority in his house to a trustworthy and thoughtful manager who understands his master’s desires. And the household manager will serve others what they need at exactly the right time." 
Luke12:43 And whenever his master returns, he will find that his servant has served him well. I promise you, the master will reward him generously and he will be placed as an overseer of everything he owns." 
Luke12:44  
Luke12:45 “But what if that servant says in his heart, ‘My master delays his coming, and who knows when he will return?’ Because of the delay, the servant elevates himself and mistreats those in his master’s household. Instead of caring for the ones he was appointed to serve, he abuses the other servants, both men and women. He throws drunken parties for his friends and gives himself over to every pleasure." 
Luke12:46 Let me tell you what will happen to him. His master will suddenly return at a time that shocks him, and he will remove the abusive, selfish servant from his position of trust. The master will punish him and assign him a portion with the unbelievers." 
Luke12:47 “Every servant who knows what pleases his master yet does not make himself ready and refuses to put his master’s will to action will receive many punishing blows. 
Luke12:48 Every servant who does not know his master’s will and unwittingly does what is wrong will receive a less severe punishment. For those who have received a greater revelation from their master are required a greater obedience. And those who have been entrusted with great responsibility will be held more responsible to their master.” 
Luke12:49 “I have come to set the earth on fire, and how I wish it were already ablaze with fiery passion for God!" 
Luke12:50 But first I must be immersed into the baptism of God’s judgment, and I am consumed with passion as I await its fulfillment." 
Luke12:51 Don’t think for a moment that I came to grant peace and harmony to everyone. No, my arrival will change everything and create hostility among you." 
Luke12:52 From now on, even family members will be divided over me and will choose sides one against another." 
Luke12:53 Fathers will be divided from sons and sons from fathers; mothers will be divided from daughters and daughters from mothers; mothers-in-law will be against brides and brides against mothers-in-law—all because of me.” 
Luke12:54 Jesus then said to the crowds gathered around him, “When you see a cloud forming in the west, don’t you say, ‘A storm is brewing’? And then it arrives." 
Luke12:55 And when you feel the south wind blowing, you say, ‘A heat wave is on the way.’ And so it happens." 
Luke12:56 What hypocrites! You are such experts at forecasting the weather, but you are totally unwilling to understand the spiritual significance of the time you’re living in." 
Luke12:57 “You can’t even judge for yourselves what is good and right. 
Luke12:58 “When you are guilty of wrong-doing, it is better to agree with your adversary and settle your dispute before you have to go before a judge. If not, your adversary may drag you into court, and the judge may find you guilty and" 
Luke12:59 throw you into prison until you have paid off your fine entirely.” 
Luke13:1 Some of those in the crowd informed Jesus that Pilate had slaughtered some Galilean Jews while they were offering sacrifices at the temple, mixing their blood with the sacrifices they were offering." 
Luke13:2 Jesus turned and asked them, “Do you believe that the slaughtered Galileans were the worst sinners of all the Galileans?" 
Luke13:3 No, they weren’t! So listen to me, unless you all repent, you will perish as they did." 
Luke13:4 What about the eighteen who perished when the tower of Siloam fell upon them? Do you really think that they were more guilty than all of the others in Jerusalem? 
Luke13:5 No, they weren’t, and unless you repent, you too will all eternally perish, just as they did.”" 
Luke13:6 Then Jesus told them this parable: “There was a man who planted a fig tree in his orchard. But every time he came to gather fruit from his tree he found none, for it was barren." 
Luke13:7 So he said to his gardener, ‘For the last three years I’ve come to gather figs from my tree but it remains fruitless. What a waste! Go ahead and cut it down!’" 
Luke13:8 “But the gardener protested, ‘Sir, we should leave it one more year. Let me fertilize and cultivate it, then let’s see if it will produce fruit." 
Luke13:9 If it doesn’t bear figs by next year, we’ll cut it down.’ ”" 
Luke13:10 One Sabbath day, while Jesus was teaching in the synagogue," 
Luke13:11 he encountered a seriously handicapped woman. She was crippled and had been doubled over for eighteen years. Her condition was caused by a demonic spirit of bondage that had left her unable to stand up straight. 
Luke13:12 When Jesus saw her condition, he called her to him and gently laid his hands on her. Then he said, “Dear woman, you are free. I release you forever from this crippling spirit.” Instantly she stood straight and tall and overflowed with glorious praise to God!" 
Luke13:13  
Luke13:14 The Jewish leader who was in charge of the synagogue was infuriated over Jesus healing on the Sabbath day. “Six days you are to work,” he shouted angrily to the crowd. “On those days you should come here for healing, but not on the seventh day!”" 
Luke13:15 The Lord replied, “You hypocrites! Don’t you care for your animals on the Sabbath, untying your ox or donkey from the stall and leading it away to water?" 
Luke13:16 If you do this for your animals, what’s wrong with allowing this beloved daughter of Abraham, who has been bound by Satan for eighteen long years, to be untied and set free on a Sabbath day?”" 
Luke13:17 When they heard this, his critics were completely humiliated. But the crowds shouted with joy over the glorious things Jesus was doing among them." 
Luke13:18 Jesus taught them this parable: “How can I describe God’s kingdom? 
Luke13:19 God’s kingdom is like the smallest seed that one might plant in a garden. When it grows, it becomes a huge tree, with so many spreading branches that various birds make nests there.”" 
Luke13:20 Jesus taught them another parable: “How can I describe God’s kingdom? 
Luke13:21 God’s kingdom is like something as small as yeast that a woman kneads into a large amount of dough. It works unseen until it permeates the entire batch and the loaf rises high.” 
Luke13:22 Jesus ministered from village to village, making his way to Jerusalem and teaching the people as he went." 
Luke13:23 A bystander asked him, “Lord, will only a few have eternal life?” Jesus said to the crowd," 
Luke13:24 “There is a great cost for anyone to enter through the narrow doorway into God’s kingdom. I tell you, many will want to enter but won’t be able to." 
Luke13:25 Once the head of the house has shut and locked the door, it will be too late. Even if you stand outside knocking, begging to enter, and saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open the door for us,’ he will say to you, ‘I don’t know who you are. You are not a part of my family.’" 
Luke13:26 “Then you will reply, ‘But Lord, we dined with you and walked with you as you taught us.’" 
Luke13:27 And he will reply, ‘Don’t you understand? I don’t know who you are, for you are not a part of my family. I will not let you in. Now, go away from me! For you are all disloyal to me and do evil.’" 
Luke13:28 “You will experience great weeping and great anguish when you see Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, along with all the prophets of Israel, enjoying God’s kingdom while you yourselves are barred from entering." 
Luke13:29 You will see people streaming from the four corners of the earth, accepting the invitation to feast in God’s kingdom realm, while you are outside looking in." 
Luke13:30 And take note of this: Some are despised and viewed as the least important now, but one day the master will place them at the head of the line. And some whom you view as ‘elite’ today will become the least important then.”" 
Luke13:31 Just then some Jewish religious leaders came to Jesus to urge him to flee from that place because Herod was out to kill him. 
Luke13:32 Jesus told them, “Go and tell that deceiver that I will continue to cast out demons and heal the sick today and tomorrow, and on the third day I will bring my work to perfection." 
Luke13:33 For everyone knows I am safe until I come to Jerusalem, for that is where all the prophets have been killed." 
Luke13:34 O City of Jerusalem, you are the city who murders your prophets! You are the city who pelts to death with stones the very messengers sent to deliver you! So many times I have longed to gather your wayward children together around me, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings—but you were too stubborn to let me." 
Luke13:35 Now it is too late, since your house will be left in ruins. You will not see me again until you are able to say, ‘We welcome the one who comes to us sent in the name of the Lord.’ ”" 
Luke14:1 One Sabbath, Jesus was on his way to dine with a prominent Jewish religious leader for a festive meal. Everyone was watching him to see if he would heal anyone on the Sabbath." 
Luke14:2 Just then, standing right in front of him was a man with his limbs suffering from edema." 
Luke14:3 Jesus asked the experts of the law and the Pharisees who were present, “Does the law permit a man to heal on the Sabbath day? Is it right or wrong?”" 
Luke14:4 No one dared answer, so Jesus turned to the sick man, released healing to him, and sent him on his way." 
Luke14:5 Jesus said to them all, “If one of your children or one of your animals fell into a well, wouldn’t you do all you could to rescue them even on the Sabbath?”" 
Luke14:6 There was nothing they could say—all were silenced. 
Luke14:7 When Jesus noticed how the guests for the meal were all vying for the seats of honor, he shared this story with the guests around the table:" 
Luke14:8 “When you are invited to an important social function, don’t be quick to sit near the head of the table, choosing for yourself a seat of honor. What will happen to you when someone arrives who is more distinguished than you?" 
Luke14:9 The host will bring him over to where you are sitting and ask for your seat, saying in front of all the guests, ‘You’re in the wrong place. Please give this person your seat.’ Disgraced, you will have to take whatever seat is left." 
Luke14:10 Instead, when you’re invited to a banquet, you should choose to sit in the lowest place. When your host comes and sees you there, he may say, ‘My friend, come with me and let me seat you in a better place.’ Then, in front of all the other guests at the banquet, he will honor you by seating you in the place of highest respect." 
Luke14:11 “Remember this: everyone with a lofty opinion of who he is and who seeks to raise himself up will be publicly humbled. And everyone with a modest opinion of who he is and chooses to humble himself will be raised up before all.” 
Luke14:12 Then Jesus turned to his host and said, “When you throw a banquet, don’t just invite your friends, relatives, or rich neighbors—for it is likely they will return the favor." 
Luke14:13 It is better to invite those who never get an invitation. If you invite the poor to your banquet, along with the outcast, the handicapped, and the blind—those who could never repay you the favor, then you will experience a great blessing in this life, and at the resurrection of the godly you will receive a full reward.”" 
Luke14:14  
Luke14:15 When they heard this, one of the dinner guests said to Jesus, “Someday God will have a kingdom feast, and how happy and privileged will be the ones who get to share in that joy!”" 
Luke14:16 Jesus replied with this parable: “A man invited many to join him in a great feast. 
Luke14:17 When the day for the feast arrived, the host instructed his servant to notify all the invited guests and tell them, ‘Come, for everything is now ready for you!’" 
Luke14:18 But one by one they all made excuses. One said, ‘I can’t come. I just bought some property and I have to go and look it over.’" 
Luke14:19 Another said, ‘Please accept my regrets, for I just purchased five teams of oxen and I need to make sure they can pull the plow.’" 
Luke14:20 Another one said, ‘I can’t come because I just got married.’" 
Luke14:21 “The servant reported back to the host and told him of all their excuses. The master became angry and said to his servant, ‘Go at once throughout the city and invite anyone you find—the poor, the blind, the disabled, the hurting, and the lonely. Invite them to my banquet.’" 
Luke14:22 “When the servant returned to his master, he said, ‘Sir, I have done what you asked, but there’s still room for more.’" 
Luke14:23 “So the master told him, ‘All right. Go out again, and this time bring them all back with you. Persuade the beggars on the streets, the outcasts, even the homeless. Insist that they come in and enjoy the feast so that my house will be full.’" 
Luke14:24 “I say to you all, no one who receives an invitation to feast with me and makes excuses will ever enjoy my banquet.”" 
Luke14:25 As massive crowds followed Jesus, he turned to them and said," 
Luke14:26 “When you follow me as my disciple, you must put aside your father, your mother, your wife, your sisters, your brothers; it will even seem as though you hate your own life. This is the price you’ll pay to be considered one of my followers." 
Luke14:27 Anyone who comes to me must be willing to share my cross and experience it as his own, or he cannot be considered to be my disciple." 
Luke14:28 So don’t follow me without considering what it will cost you. For who would construct a house before first sitting down to estimate the cost to complete it? 
Luke14:29 Otherwise he may lay the foundation and not be able to finish. The neighbors will ridicule him, saying," 
Luke14:30 ‘Look at him! He started to build but couldn’t complete it!’ 
Luke14:31 “Have you ever heard of a commander who goes out to war without first sitting down with strategic planning to determine the strength of his army to win the war against a stronger opponent? 
Luke14:32 If he knows he doesn’t stand a chance of winning the war, the wise commander will send out delegates to ask for the terms of peace." 
Luke14:33 Likewise, unless you surrender all to me, giving up all you possess, you cannot be one of my disciples." 
Luke14:34 “Salt is good for seasoning. But if salt were to lose its flavor, how could it ever be restored?" 
Luke14:35 It will never be useful again, not even fit for the soil or the manure pile! If you have ears opened by the Spirit, then hear the meaning of what I have said and apply it to yourselves.”" 
Luke15:1 Many dishonest tax collectors and other notorious sinners often gathered around to listen as Jesus taught the people. 
Luke15:2 This raised concerns among the Jewish religious leaders and experts of the law. Indignant, they grumbled and complained, saying, “Look at how this man associates with all these notorious sinners and welcomes them all to come to him!”" 
Luke15:3 In response, Jesus gave them this illustration:" 
Luke15:4 “There once was a shepherd with a hundred lambs, but one of his lambs wandered away and was lost. So the shepherd left the ninety-nine lambs out in the open field and searched in the wilderness for that one lost lamb. He didn’t stop until he finally found it. With exuberant joy, he raised it up, placed it on his shoulders, and carried it back with cheerful delight!" 
Luke15:5  
Luke15:6 Returning home, he called all his friends and neighbors together and said, ‘Let’s have a party! Come and celebrate with me the return of my lost lamb. It wandered away, but I found it and brought it home.’ ”" 
Luke15:7 Jesus continued, “In the same way, there will be a glorious celebration in heaven over the rescue of one lost sinner who repents, comes back home, and returns to the fold—more so than for all the righteous people who never strayed away.”" 
Luke15:8 Jesus gave them another parable: “There once was a woman who had ten valuable silver coins. When she lost one of them, she swept her entire house, diligently searching every nook and cranny for that one lost coin." 
Luke15:9 When she finally found it, she gathered all her friends and neighbors for a celebration, telling them, ‘Come and celebrate with me! I had lost my precious silver coin, but now I’ve found it.’" 
Luke15:10 That’s the way God responds every time one lost sinner repents and turns to him. He says to all his angels, ‘Let’s have a joyous celebration, for the one who was lost, I have found!’ ”" 
Luke15:11 Then Jesus said, “Once there was a father with two sons." 
Luke15:12 The younger son came to his father and said, ‘Father, don’t you think it’s time to give me my share of your estate?’ So the father went ahead and distributed between the two sons their inheritance." 
Luke15:13 Shortly afterward, the younger son packed up all his belongings and traveled off to see the world. He journeyed to a far-off land where he soon wasted all he was given in a binge of extravagant and reckless living." 
Luke15:14 “With everything spent and nothing left, he grew hungry, because there was a severe famine in that land." 
Luke15:15 So he begged a farmer in that country to hire him. The farmer hired him and sent him out to feed the pigs. 
Luke15:16 The son was so famished, he was willing even to eat the slop given to the pigs, because no one would feed him a thing." 
Luke15:17 “Humiliated, the son finally realized what he was doing, and he thought, ‘There are many workers at my father’s house who have all the food they want with plenty to spare. They lack nothing. Why am I here dying of hunger, feeding these pigs and eating their slop?" 
Luke15:18 I want to go back home to my father’s house, and I’ll say to him, “Father, I was wrong. I have sinned against you." 
Luke15:19 I’ll never again be worthy to be called your son. Please, Father, just treat me like one of your employees.” ’" 
Luke15:20 “So the young son set off for home. From a long distance away, his father saw him coming, dressed as a beggar, and great compassion swelled up in his heart for his son who was returning home. The father raced out to meet him, swept him up in his arms, hugged him dearly, and kissed him over and over with tender love." 
Luke15:21 “Then the son said, ‘Father, I was wrong. I have sinned against you. I could never deserve to be called your son. Just let me be—’ “The father interrupted and said, ‘Son, you’re home now!’" 
Luke15:22 “Turning to his servants, the father said, ‘Quick, bring me the best robe, my very own robe, and I will place it on his shoulders. Bring the ring, the seal of sonship, and I will put it on his finger. And bring out the best shoes you can find for my son." 
Luke15:23 Let’s prepare a great feast and celebrate. 
Luke15:24 For my beloved son was once dead, but now he’s alive! Once he was lost, but now he is found!’ And everyone celebrated with overflowing joy." 
Luke15:25 “Now, the older son was out working in the field when his brother returned, and as he approached the house, he heard the music of celebration and dancing." 
Luke15:26 He called over one of the servants and asked, ‘What’s going on?’" 
Luke15:27 “The servant replied, ‘It’s your younger brother. He’s returned home and your father is throwing a party to celebrate his homecoming.’" 
Luke15:28 “The older son became angry and refused to go in and celebrate. So his father came out and pleaded with him, ‘Come and enjoy the feast with us!’" 
Luke15:29 “The son said, ‘Father, listen! How many years have I worked like a slave for you, performing every duty you’ve asked as a faithful son? And I’ve never once disobeyed you. But you’ve never thrown a party for me because of my faithfulness. Never once have you even given me a goat that I could feast on and celebrate with my friends as this son of yours is doing now." 
Luke15:30 Look at him! He comes back after wasting your wealth on prostitutes and reckless living, and here you are throwing a great feast to celebrate—for him!’" 
Luke15:31 “The father said, ‘My son, you are always with me by my side. Everything I have is yours to enjoy." 
Luke15:32 It’s only right to rejoice and celebrate like this, because your brother was once dead and gone, but now he is alive and back with us again. He was lost, but now he is found!’ ”" 
Luke16:1 Jesus taught his disciples using this story: “Once a very rich man hired a manager to run his business and oversee all his wealth. But soon a rumor spread that the manager was wasting his master’s money. 
Luke16:2 So the master called him in and said, ‘Is it true that you are mismanaging my estate? You need to provide me with a complete audit of everything you oversee for me. I’ve decided to dismiss you.’" 
Luke16:3 “The manager thought, ‘Now what am I going to do? I’m finished here. I can’t hide what I’ve done, and I’m too proud to beg." 
Luke16:4 I have an idea that will secure my future. It will win me favor and secure friends who can take care of me and help me when I get fired!’ 
Luke16:5 “So the dishonest manager hatched his scheme. He went to everyone who owed his master money, one by one, and asked them, ‘How much do you owe my master?’" 
Luke16:6 One debtor owed twenty thousand dollars, so he said to him, ‘Let me see your bill. Pay me now and we’ll settle for twenty percent less.’ The clever manager scratched out the original amount owed and reduced it by twenty percent. And to another who owed two hundred thousand dollars, he said, ‘Pay me now and we’ll reduce your bill by fifty percent.’ And the clever manager scratched out the original amount owed and reduced it by half." 
Luke16:7  
Luke16:8 “Even though his master was defrauded, when he found out about the shrewd way this manager had feathered his own nest, he congratulated the clever scoundrel for what he’d done to provide for his future.” Jesus continued, “Remember this: The sons of darkness interact more wisely than the sons of light." 
Luke16:9 Use the wealth of this world to demonstrate your friendship with God by winning friends and blessing others. Then, when it runs out, your generosity will provide you with an eternal reward." 
Luke16:10 “The one who faithfully manages the little he has been given will be promoted and trusted with greater responsibilities. But those who cheat with the little they have been given will not be considered trustworthy to receive more. 
Luke16:11 If you have not handled the riches of this world with integrity, why should you be trusted with the eternal treasures of the spiritual world?" 
Luke16:12 And if you’ve not proven yourself faithful with what belongs to another, why should you be given wealth of your own?" 
Luke16:13 It is impossible for a person to serve two masters at the same time. You will be forced to love one and reject the other. One master will be despised and the other will have your loyal devotion. Your choice between God and the wealth of this world is no different. You must enthusiastically love one and definitively reject the other.” 
Luke16:14 Now, the Jewish religious leaders listening to Jesus were lovers of money. They laughed at what he said and mocked his teachings," 
Luke16:15 so Jesus addressed them directly. “You always want to look spiritual in the eyes of others, but you have forgotten the eyes of God, which see what is inside you. The very things that you approve of and applaud are the things God despises." 
Luke16:16 The law of Moses and the revelation of the prophets have prepared you for the arrival of the kingdom announced by John. Since that time, the wonderful news of God’s kingdom is being preached, and people’s hearts burn with extreme passion to receive it." 
Luke16:16 The law of Moses and the revelation of the prophets have prepared you for the arrival of the kingdom announced by John. Since that time, the wonderful news of God’s kingdom is being preached, and people’s hearts burn with extreme passion to receive it." 
Luke16:17 Heaven and earth will disintegrate before even the smallest detail of the Law will fail or lose its power. 
Luke16:18 “It is wrong for you to divorce your wife so that you can marry another—that is adultery. And when you take that one you lusted after as your wife, and contribute to the breakup of her marriage, you commit adultery again.”" 
Luke16:19 Jesus continued. “There once was a very rich man who had the finest things imaginable, living every day enjoying his life of opulent luxury." 
Luke16:20 Outside the gate of his mansion was a poor beggar named Lazarus. He lay there every day, covered with boils, and all the neighborhood dogs would come and lick his open sores. The only food he had to eat was the garbage that the rich man threw away." 
Luke16:21  
Luke16:22 “One day poor Lazarus died, and the angels of God came and escorted his spirit into paradise." 
Luke16:23 “The day came that the rich man also died. In hell he looked up from his torment and saw Abraham in the distance, and Lazarus was standing beside him in the glory." 
Luke16:24 The rich man shouted, ‘Father Abraham! Father Abraham! Have mercy on me. Send Lazarus to dip his finger in water and come to cool my tongue, for I am in agony in these flames of fire!’" 
Luke16:25 “But Abraham responded, ‘My friend, don’t you remember? While you were alive, you had all you desired. You surrounded yourself in luxury, while Lazarus had nothing. Now Lazarus dwells in the comforts of paradise and you are in agony." 
Luke16:26 Besides, between us is a huge chasm that cannot be bridged, nor can anyone cross from one realm to the other, even if he wanted.’" 
Luke16:27 “The rich man continued, ‘Then let me ask you, Father Abraham, please send Lazarus to my relatives." 
Luke16:28 Tell him to witness to my five brothers and warn them not to end up where I am in this place of torment.’ 
Luke16:29 “Abraham replied, ‘They’ve already had plenty of warning. They have the teachings of Moses and the revelation of the prophets; let them hear them.’" 
Luke16:30 “ ‘What if they’re not listening?’ the rich man added. ‘If someone from the dead were to go and warn them, they would surely repent.’" 
Luke16:31 “Abraham said to him, ‘If they wouldn’t listen to Moses and the prophets, neither would they be convinced if someone were raised from the dead!’ ”" 
Luke17:1 One day Jesus taught his disciples: “Betrayals are inevitable, but great devastation will come to the one guilty of betraying others." 
Luke17:2 It would be better for him to have a heavy boulder tied around his neck and be hurled into the deepest sea than to face the punishment of betraying one of my dear ones! So be alert to your brother’s condition," 
Luke17:3 and if you see him going the wrong direction, cry out and correct him. If there is true repentance on his part, forgive him." 
Luke17:4 No matter how many times in one day your brother sins against you and says, ‘I’m sorry; I am changing; forgive me,’ you need to forgive him each and every time.”" 
Luke17:5 Upon hearing this, the apostles said to Jesus, “Lord, you must increase our measure of faith!”" 
Luke17:6 Jesus responded, “If you have even the smallest measure of faith, it would be powerful enough to say to this large tree, ‘My faith will pull you up by the roots and throw you into the sea,’ and it will respond to your faith and obey you.”" 
Luke17:7 Jesus continued, “After a servant has finished his work in the field or with the livestock, he doesn’t immediately sit down to relax and eat. No, a true servant prepares the food for his master and makes sure his master is served his meal before he sits down to eat his own." 
Luke17:8  
Luke17:9 Does the servant expect to be thanked for doing what is required of him? 
Luke17:10 So learn this lesson: After doing all that is commanded of you, simply say, ‘We are mere servants, undeserving of special praise, for we are just doing what is expected of us and fulfilling our duties.’ ”" 
Luke17:11 On his way to Jerusalem Jesus passed through the border region between Samaria and Galilee. 
Luke17:12 As he entered one village, ten men approached him, but they kept their distance, for they were lepers." 
Luke17:13 They shouted to him, “Mighty Lord, our wonderful Master! Won’t you have mercy on us and heal us?”" 
Luke17:14 When Jesus stopped to look at them, he spoke these words: “Go to be examined by the Jewish priests.” They set off, and they were healed while walking along the way." 
Luke17:15 One of them, a Samaritan, when he discovered that he was completely healed, turned back to find Jesus, shouting out joyous praises and glorifying God." 
Luke17:16 When he found Jesus, he fell down at his feet and thanked him over and over, saying to him, “You are the Messiah.”" 
Luke17:17 “So where are the other nine?” Jesus asked. “Weren’t there ten who were healed? 
Luke17:18 They all refused to return to give thanks and give glory to God except you, a foreigner from Samaria?”" 
Luke17:19 Then Jesus said to the healed man lying at his feet, “Arise and go. It was your faith that brought you salvation and made you whole.”" 
Luke17:20 Jesus was once asked by the Jewish religious leaders, “When will God’s kingdom come?” Jesus responded, “God’s kingdom does not come simply by obeying principles or waiting for signs." 
Luke17:21 The kingdom is not discovered in one place or another, for God’s kingdom realm is already expanding within some of you.”" 
Luke17:22 Later, Jesus addressed this again with his apostles, saying, “The time is coming when a great passion will be awakened within you to see me again. Yes, you will long to see the beginning of the days of the Son of Man, but you won’t be able to find me." 
Luke17:23 You will hear reports from some who will say, ‘Look, he has returned,’ ‘He’s over here,’ or, ‘He’s over there!’ Don’t believe it or run after them, for their claims will be false." 
Luke17:24 The day of the Son of Man will burst forth with the brightness of a lightning strike that shines from one end of the sky to the other, illuminating the earth." 
Luke17:25 “But before this takes place, the Son of Man must pass through great suffering and rejection from this generation." 
Luke17:26 The same things that happened in the days of Noah will take place in the days of the Son of Man. 
Luke17:27 They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, and they were given in marriage until the day Noah boarded the ark and the devastating flood came and swept them all away." 
Luke17:28 “The days of the Son of Man can also be compared to the days of Lot. The people of that time lived their lives as normal. They got married, raised families, built homes and businesses, yet they were totally unaware of what was coming until the day Lot departed from Sodom. The sky opened up and rained fire and burning sulfur upon them, destroying everyone and everything they had built. So it will be on the day of the unveiling of the Son of Man." 
Luke17:29  
Luke17:30  
Luke17:31 “On that day, if one is outside, he won’t even have time to go back into the house to gather his belongings. And those toiling in their fields won’t have time to run back home." 
Luke17:32 Don’t forget the example of Lot’s wife and what happened to her when she turned back. 
Luke17:33 All who are obsessed with being secure in life will lose it all—including their lives. But those who let go of their lives and surrender them to me will discover true life. 
Luke17:34 For in that night there will be two lying in their bed; one will be suddenly swept away while the other will be left alive. 
Luke17:35 There will be two women working together at household duties; one will be suddenly swept away while the other will be left alive.” 
Luke17:36  
Luke17:37 His apostles asked, “Lord, where will this judgment happen?” Jesus responded, “ It will be obvious, for wherever there are those spiritually dead, there you will find the eagles circling.”" 
Luke18:1 One day Jesus taught the apostles to keep praying and never stop or lose hope. He shared with them this illustration: 
Luke18:2 “In a certain town there was a judge, a thick-skinned and godless man who had no fear of others’ opinions." 
Luke18:3 And in the same town there was a poor widow who kept pleading with the judge, ‘Grant me justice and protect me from my oppressor!’" 
Luke18:4 “He ignored her pleas for quite some time, but she kept asking. Eventually he said to himself, ‘This widow keeps annoying me, demanding her rights, and I’m tired of listening to her. Even though I’m not a religious man, and I don’t care about the opinions of others, I’ll get her off my back by answering her claims for justice and I’ll rule in her favor. Then she’ll leave me alone.’ ”" 
Luke18:5  
Luke18:6 Jesus continued, “Did you hear what the godless judge said—that he would answer her persistent request?" 
Luke18:7 Don’t you know that God, the true judge, will grant justice to all his chosen ones who cry out to him night and day? He will pour out his Spirit upon them. He will not delay to answer you and give you what you ask for." 
Luke18:8 God will give swift justice to those who don’t give up. So be ever praying, ever expecting, in the same way as the widow. Even so, when the Son of Man comes back, will he find this kind of undying faith on earth?”" 
Luke18:9 Jesus taught this parable to those who were convinced they were morally upright and to those who trusted in their own virtue yet looked down on others with disgust: 
Luke18:10 “Two men who went into the temple to pray. One was a proud religious leader, the other a despised tax collector." 
Luke18:11 The religious leader stood apart from the others and prayed, ‘How I thank you, O God, that I’m not wicked like everyone else. They’re cheaters, swindlers, and crooks—like that tax collector over there. God, you know that I never cheat or commit adultery; I fast from food twice a week and I give you a tenth of all I earn.’" 
Luke18:12  
Luke18:13 “The tax collector stood alone in a corner, away from the Holy Place, and covered his face in his hands, feeling that he was unworthy even to look up to God. Beating his breast, he sobbed with brokenness and tears saying, ‘God, please, in your mercy and because of the blood sacrifice, forgive me, for I am nothing but the most miserable of all sinners!’" 
Luke18:14 “Which one of them left for home that day reconciled to God? The humble tax collector, not the religious leader! For everyone who praises himself will one day be publicly humiliated, and everyone who humbles himself will one day be publicly honored and lifted up.”" 
Luke18:15 The people brought their babies and small children to Jesus so that he might lay his hands on them to bless them. When the disciples saw this, they scolded the parents and told them to stop troubling the Master." 
Luke18:16 Seeing what was happening, Jesus called for the parents, the children, and his disciples to come and listen to him. Then he told them, “Never hinder a child from coming to me but let them all come, for God’s kingdom belongs to them as much as it does to anyone else. These children demonstrate to you what faith is all about." 
Luke18:17 Learn this well: unless you receive the revelation of the kingdom the same way a little child receives it, you will never be able to enter in.”" 
Luke18:18 One day a wealthy Jewish nobleman of high standing posed this question to Jesus: “Wonderful Teacher, what must I do to receive eternal life?”" 
Luke18:19 Jesus answered, “Why would you call me wonderful when there is only one who is wonderful—and that is God alone?" 
Luke18:20 You already know what is right and what the commandments teach: ‘Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not lie, and honor your father and your mother.’ ”" 
Luke18:21 The wealthy leader replied, “These are the very things I’ve been doing for as long as I can remember.”" 
Luke18:22 “Ah,” Jesus said, “there’s still one thing you’re missing in your life.” “What is that?” asked the man. “You must go and sell everything you own and give all the proceeds to the poor so you will have eternal treasures. Then come and follow me.”" 
Luke18:23 These words devastated the rich leader, for he was extremely wealthy." 
Luke18:24 Jesus saw his disappointment, and looking right at him said, “It is next to impossible for those who have everything to enter into God’s kingdom." 
Luke18:25 Nothing could be harder! You could compare it to trying to stuff a rope through the eye of a needle.” 
Luke18:26 Those who heard this said, “Then who can be saved?”" 
Luke18:27 Jesus responded, “What appears humanly impossible is more than possible with God. For God can do what man cannot.”" 
Luke18:28 Peter said, “Master, see how we’ve left all that we have, our houses and our careers, to follow you.”" 
Luke18:29 Jesus replied, “Listen to my words: anyone who leaves his home behind and chooses God’s kingdom over wife, children, parents, and family, it will come back to him many more times in this lifetime. And in the age to come, he will inherit even more than that—he will inherit eternal life!”" 
Luke18:30  
Luke18:31 Jesus took the Twelve aside and told them in private, “We are going to Jerusalem so that everything prophesied about the Son of Man will be fulfilled." 
Luke18:32 They will betray him and hand him over to the people, and they will mock him, insult him, and spit in his face." 
Luke18:33 And after they have abused and flogged the Son of Man, they will kill him. But in three days he will rise again.”" 
Luke18:34 The disciples had no clue what he was saying, for his words were a mystery that was hidden from them." 
Luke18:35 As Jesus and his followers arrived at Jericho, a blind beggar was sitting by the roadside." 
Luke18:36 When he heard the crowd approaching, he asked, “What’s all this commotion about?”" 
Luke18:37 “It’s Jesus!” they said. “Jesus the Nazarene is passing by.” 
Luke18:38 The blind beggar shouted, “Jesus, Son of David, have pity and show me mercy!”" 
Luke18:39 Those in the front of the crowd scolded him and warned him to be quiet, but the blind beggar screamed out even louder, “Jesus, Son of David, show me mercy!”" 
Luke18:40 Suddenly Jesus stopped and directed those nearby, “Bring the man over to me.” When they brought him before Jesus, he asked the man," 
Luke18:41 “What do you want me to do for you?” “Master,” he said, “please, I want to see.”" 
Luke18:42 Jesus said, “Now you will see. Receive your sight this moment, for your faith in me has given you sight and new life.”" 
Luke18:43 Instantly he could see again. His eyes popped open, and he saw Jesus standing in front of him! He shouted loud praises to God and he followed Jesus. And when the crowd saw what happened, they too erupted with shouts of praise to God." 
Luke19:1 On his way to Jerusalem, Jesus had to pass through Jericho." 
Luke19:2 There lived a very wealthy man named Zacchaeus, who supervised all the tax collectors." 
Luke19:3 He was very eager to see Jesus and kept trying to get a look at him through the massive crowd. Since Zacchaeus was a short man and couldn’t see over the heads of the people," 
Luke19:4 he ran on ahead of everyone and climbed up a blossoming fig tree to get a glimpse of Jesus as he passed by. 
Luke19:5 When Jesus got to that place, he looked up into the tree and said, “Zacchaeus, hurry on down, for I must stay at your house today!”" 
Luke19:6 So he scurried down the tree and found himself face-to-face with Jesus. 
Luke19:7 As Jesus left to go with Zacchaeus, many in the crowd complained, “Look at this! Of all the people to have dinner with, he’s going to eat in the house of a crook.”" 
Luke19:8 Zacchaeus was amazed over his gracious visit to his home and joyously welcomed Jesus. Zacchaeus stood in front of the Lord and said, “Half of all that I own I will give to the poor. And Lord, if I have cheated anyone, I promise to pay them back four times as much as I stole.”" 
Luke19:9 Jesus said to him, “Your repentance shows that today life has come to you and your household, and that you are a true son of Abraham." 
Luke19:10 The Son of Man has come to seek out and to give life to those who are lost.” 
Luke19:11 At this time Jesus was getting close to entering Jerusalem. The crowds that followed him were convinced that God’s kingdom would fully manifest when Jesus established it in Jerusalem. 
Luke19:12 So he told them this story to change their perspective: “Once a wealthy prince left his province to travel to a distant land, where he would be crowned king and then return." 
Luke19:13 Before he departed he summoned his ten servants together and charged them, ‘I am entrusting each of you with fifty thousand dollars to invest while I am away. Trade with it and put the money to work until I return.’" 
Luke19:14 “Some of his countrymen despised the prince and sent a delegation after him to declare before the royals, ‘We refuse to let this man rule over us! He will not be our king!’" 
Luke19:15 “Nevertheless, he was crowned king and returned to his land. Then he summoned his ten servants to see how much each one had earned and what their profits came to." 
Luke19:16 “The first one came forward and said, ‘Master, I took what you gave me and invested it, and it multiplied ten times.’" 
Luke19:17 “ ‘Splendid! You have done well, my excellent servant. Because you have shown that I can trust you in this small matter, I now grant you authority to rule over ten cities.’" 
Luke19:18 “The second came and said, ‘Master, what you left with me has multiplied five times.’" 
Luke19:19 “His master said, ‘I also grant you authority in my kingdom over five cities.’" 
Luke19:20 “Another came before the king and said, ‘Master, here is the money you entrusted to me. I hid it for safekeeping." 
Luke19:21 You see, I live in fear of you, for everyone knows you are a strict master and impossible to please. You push us for a high return on all that you own, and you always want to gain from someone else’s efforts.’" 
Luke19:22 “The king said, ‘You wicked servant! I will judge you using your own words. If what you said about me is true, that I am a harsh man, pushing you for a high return and wanting gain from others’ efforts," 
Luke19:23 why didn’t you at least put my money in the bank to earn some interest on it?’ 
Luke19:24 “The king said to his other servants, ‘Take the money he has and give it to the faithful servant who multiplied my money ten times over.’" 
Luke19:25 “ ‘But master,’ the other servants objected, ‘why give it to him? He already has so much!’" 
Luke19:26 “ ‘Yes,’ replied the king. ‘But to all who have been faithful, I will give even more to them. And for the ones who have nothing, even the little they seem to have I will take from them." 
Luke19:27 Now, bring all those rebellious enemies of mine who rejected me as their king—bring them here before me and execute them!’ ”" 
Luke19:28 After saying all of this, Jesus headed straight for Jerusalem." 
Luke19:29 When he arrived at the stables of Annia near the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples ahead, saying," 
Luke19:30 “When you enter the next village, you will find tethered there a donkey’s young colt that has never been ridden. Untie it and bring it to me." 
Luke19:31 And if anyone stops you and asks, ‘What are you doing?’ just tell them this: ‘It is needed for the Lord.’ ”" 
Luke19:32 The two disciples entered the village and found the colt exactly like Jesus had said. 
Luke19:33 While they were untying it, the owners confronted them and asked, “What are you doing?”" 
Luke19:34 The disciples replied, “We need this donkey for the Lord.”" 
Luke19:35 After they brought the colt to Jesus, they placed their prayer shawls on its back, and Jesus rode it as he descended the Mount of Olives toward Jerusalem. As he rode toward the city, people spontaneously threw their prayer shawls like a carpet on the path in front of him." 
Luke19:36  
Luke19:37 As soon as he got to the bottom of the Mount of Olives, the crowd of his followers shouted with a loud outburst of ecstatic joy over all the mighty wonders of power they had witnessed." 
Luke19:38 They shouted over and over, “Highest praises to God for the one who comes as King in the name of the Lord! Heaven’s peace and glory from the highest realm now comes to us!”" 
Luke19:39 Some Jewish religious leaders who stood off from the procession said to Jesus, “Teacher, order your followers at once to stop saying these things!”" 
Luke19:40 Jesus responded, “Listen to me. If my followers were silenced, the very stones would break forth with praises!”" 
Luke19:41 When Jesus caught sight of the city, he burst into tears with uncontrollable weeping over Jerusalem," 
Luke19:42 saying, “If only you could recognize that this day peace is within your reach! But you cannot see it." 
Luke19:43 For the day is soon coming when your enemies will surround you, hem you in on every side, and lay siege to you." 
Luke19:44 They will crush you to pieces, and your children too! And they will leave your city totally destroyed. Since you would not recognize God’s day of visitation, you will see your day of devastation!”" 
Luke19:45 Jesus entered the temple area and forcibly threw out all the merchants from their stalls. 
Luke19:46 He rebuked them, saying, “The Scriptures declare, ‘My Father’s house is to be filled with prayer—a house of prayer, not a cave of bandits!’ ”" 
Luke19:47 From then on Jesus continued teaching in the temple area, but the high priests, the experts of the law, and the prominent men of the city kept trying to find a strategy to accuse Jesus, for they wanted him dead." 
Luke19:48 They could find no reason to accuse him, for he was a hero to the people and the crowds were awestruck by every word he spoke." 
Luke20:1 One day Jesus was teaching in the temple courts and sharing with the people the wonderful news of salvation. The high priest, the experts of the law, and the prominent men of the city confronted Jesus and asked him," 
Luke20:2 “We want to know right now by what authority are you teaching here in the temple? And who gave you the authority to teach these things?” 
Luke20:3 Jesus responded, “First, let me ask you a question and you tell me right now." 
Luke20:4 Did John baptize because he had a commission from heaven or merely from men?” 
Luke20:4 Did John baptize because he had a commission from heaven or merely from men?” 
Luke20:5 His interrogators pulled themselves aside to consider how to respond to Jesus. “What should we say? If we say that John’s mandate was from heaven, he will ask us, ‘Then why didn’t you believe him and be baptized?’" 
Luke20:5 His interrogators pulled themselves aside to consider how to respond to Jesus. “What should we say? If we say that John’s mandate was from heaven, he will ask us, ‘Then why didn’t you believe him and be baptized?’" 
Luke20:6 But if we say, ‘John’s mandate was merely from men,’ then all the people around him will stone us, for they believe John was a prophet of God.”" 
Luke20:6 But if we say, ‘John’s mandate was merely from men,’ then all the people around him will stone us, for they believe John was a prophet of God.”" 
Luke20:7 So unable to devise an answer they said to Jesus, “We cannot tell where John’s authority came from.”" 
Luke20:7 So unable to devise an answer they said to Jesus, “We cannot tell where John’s authority came from.”" 
Luke20:8 Jesus said, “Then neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”" 
Luke20:9 Jesus taught the people using this story: “A man once planted a vineyard, then leased it out to tenants. Then he left to go abroad and was away for a long time." 
Luke20:10 At harvest time, the owner sent one of his servants to the tenants to collect the landowner’s share of the harvest, but the tenants sent him away, beaten and empty-handed." 
Luke20:11 So the owner dispatched another one of his servants to collect his portion, but the tenants treated him the same way. They cursed him, beat him, and sent him away empty-handed." 
Luke20:12 Then the owner sent a third servant, but they brutalized him also with the same treatment." 
Luke20:13 Finally the owner of the vineyard said to his son, ‘Perhaps if I send you, my own cherished son, they will be ashamed of what they’ve done.’" 
Luke20:14 “But when the tenants saw the son coming, they schemed among themselves. ‘This is the heir of the vineyard! If we kill him, the inheritance will be ours.’" 
Luke20:15 So they threw the son off the property and killed him. “I ask you, what do you think the owner of the vineyard will do to his son’s murderers?" 
Luke20:16 He will come back and destroy them and give his vineyard to another.” When the people heard this story, they all agreed, “This should never happen!”" 
Luke20:17 Jesus looked straight at the people and their leaders and said, “What do you think this verse means? ‘The worthless, rejected stone has become the cornerstone, the most important stone of all.’" 
Luke20:18 Everyone who falls in humility upon that stone will be broken. But if that stone falls on you, it will grind you to pieces!”" 
Luke20:19 When the high priests and experts of the law realized that this story was about them, they wanted to have Jesus arrested that very moment, but they were afraid of all the people." 
Luke20:20 Later, they sent spies who pretended to be honest seekers, but who wanted an opportunity to entangle Jesus by his words. Their plan was to catch him saying something against the government, so they could hand him over to the jurisdiction of the Roman authorities who would execute him for sedition." 
Luke20:21 At the right time they asked him this question: “Teacher, we know that all you say is straightforward and what you teach us is right. You give us the true ways of God. You’re one who shows no favoritism to anyone’s status. So we ask you—" 
Luke20:22 is it proper or not to pay taxes to a corrupt government?” 
Luke20:23 Jesus saw right through their cunning ploy and said, “Why are you testing me?" 
Luke20:24 Show me one of the Roman coins. Whose head is on the coin? Whose title is stamped on it?” They answered, “Why, it’s Caesar’s.”" 
Luke20:25 Jesus said, “Precisely. The coin bears the image of the Emperor Caesar, and you should give back to Caesar all that belongs to him. But you bear the image of God. So give back to God all that belongs to him.”" 
Luke20:26 The imposters were left speechless and amazed in the presence of all the people, unable to trap Jesus with his words." 
Luke20:27 Some of the Sadducees (a religious group that denies there is a resurrection of the dead) came to ask Jesus this question: 
Luke20:28 “Teacher, the law of Moses teaches that if a man dies before he has children, his brother should marry the widow and raise up children for his brother’s family line." 
Luke20:29 Now suppose there was a family with seven brothers, and the oldest married and died without children." 
Luke20:30 Then his brother married the widow, and he too died with no children. And it continued to happen, one brother after another brother, until each of the seven had married the widow and died childless." 
Luke20:31  
Luke20:32 Then finally, the widow died too. So here’s our dilemma:" 
Luke20:33 Whose wife will the woman be when she’s resurrected from the dead? Which of the brothers will be her husband, since all seven were once married to her?”" 
Luke20:34 Jesus replied, “Marriage is meant for this world only." 
Luke20:35 Those who are worthy of the resurrection from the dead into glory become immortal, like the angels, who never die nor marry. When the dead come to life again, they will be children of God—the children of the resurrection." 
Luke20:36  
Luke20:37 Even Moses taught the resurrection of the dead when he wrote of the Lord God who was at the burning bush and said ‘I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.’" 
Luke20:38 Don’t you agree that God is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living? For in his eyes, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are alive forevermore. He is the God who raises the dead.”" 
Luke20:39 The experts of the law chimed in, “Yes, Teacher, you speak the truth beautifully.”" 
Luke20:40 From then on, the religious Sadducees never dared ask Jesus a question again." 
Luke20:41 Jesus then posed this question to the people: “How can the experts of the law say that Messiah is David’s son? 
Luke20:42 Haven’t you read in the Psalms where David himself wrote: The Lord Yahweh said to my Lord, ‘Sit near me in the place of authority" 
Luke20:43 until I subdue all your enemies under Your feet!’ ” 
Luke20:44 Jesus explained, “If David calls this one ‘my Lord,’ how can he be his son?”" 
Luke20:45 Within earshot of all the people, Jesus warned his disciples," 
Luke20:46 “Don’t follow the example of these pretentious experts of the law! They love to parade around in their religious garments so that people honor them wherever they go. They like to sit right up front in every meeting and push their way to the head table at every banquet. 
Luke20:47 And for an offering they will pray long religious prayers at the homes of widows, cheating them out of their very livelihood. Beware of them all, because one day the Judge will strip them of honor, and judge them severely.”" 
Luke21:1 Jesus observed all the wealthy coming into the temple courts wanting to be noticed as they came with their offerings. 
Luke21:2 He noticed a very poor widow who dropped two small copper coins in the offering box. 
Luke21:3 “Listen to me,” he said. “This poor widow has given a larger offering than any of the wealthy." 
Luke21:4 For the rich only gave out of their surplus, but she sacrificed out of her poverty and gave to God all that she had to live on.”" 
Luke21:5 Some of the disciples remarked about the beauty of the temple. They pointed out all the lovely adornments and how it was built with excellence from the gifts given to God. Jesus said," 
Luke21:6 “The day of utter destruction will come to everything you admire here. It will all become a heap of rubble!” 
Luke21:7 “Master, tell us,” they asked, “when exactly will this happen? Can you tell us what warning sign to look for when it is about to take place?”" 
Luke21:8 Jesus responded, “Deception will run rampant and many will appear on the scene, saying I have sent them, or saying about themselves, ‘I am the Messiah!’ These doomsday deceivers will say, ‘The end of the age is now here!’ But listen to me. Don’t let any of these imposters fool you." 
Luke21:9 “There will also be many wars and revolutions on every side, with rumors of more wars to come. Don’t panic or give in to your fears, for these things are bound to happen. This is still not the end yet.”" 
Luke21:10 Jesus continued, “ There will be upheavals of every kind. Nations will go to war against each other, and kingdom against kingdom." 
Luke21:11 There will be terrible earthquakes and seismic events of epic proportion that result in famines in one place after another. There will be horrible plagues and epidemics, cataclysmic storms on the earth, and astonishing signs and cosmic disturbances in the heavens. But before all of this happens, you will be hunted down and arrested, persecuted by both civil and religious authorities, and thrown into prison." 
Luke21:12 And because you follow me, you will be on trial before kings and governmental leaders as an opportunity to testify to them in my name." 
Luke21:13  
Luke21:14 Yet determine in your hearts not to prepare for your own defense. Simply speak with the words of wisdom that I will give you that moment, and none of your persecutors will be able to withstand the grace and wisdom that comes from your mouths." 
Luke21:15  
Luke21:16 “You can expect betrayal even by your parents, your brothers, your relatives and friends—and yes, some of you will die as martyrs." 
Luke21:17 You will be hated by all because of my life in you. 
Luke21:18 But don’t worry. My grace will never desert you or depart from your life. 
Luke21:19 Stand firm with patient endurance and you will find your souls’ deliverance.” 
Luke21:20 “When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, you will know for sure that its devastation is imminent." 
Luke21:21 At that time all who are living in Judea must flee to the mountains. Those who live inside the city gates, leave and flee, and those who live outside the city must not enter it seeking refuge." 
Luke21:21 At that time all who are living in Judea must flee to the mountains. Those who live inside the city gates, leave and flee, and those who live outside the city must not enter it seeking refuge." 
Luke21:22 For these will be the days of God’s vengeance to fulfill what has been written against Jerusalem. 
Luke21:23 It will be extremely difficult for pregnant women and for those nursing little ones in that day, for great persecution and wrath will rise against this nation." 
Luke21:24 Many will be cut down by the sword or scattered as prisoners to many countries. And Jerusalem shall be trampled down by nations until the days of world empires come to an end.” 
Luke21:25 “Expect to witness amazing and perplexing signs with the sun, the moon, and the stars. The raging of the sea will bring desperation and turmoil to many nations." 
Luke21:26 Earthquakes will bring panic and disaster. What men see coming to the earth will cause the fear of doom to grip their hearts, for they will even see the powers of the heavenly realm shaken!" 
Luke21:27 “And at last, when you see how the Son of Man comes—surrounded with a cloud, with great power and miracles, in the radiance of his splendor, and with great glory and praises —it will make you jump for joy! For the time of your full transformation has arrived.”" 
Luke21:28  
Luke21:29 Jesus gave his disciples this parable: “Haven’t you observed that when the fig tree, or any tree, buds and blooms, the season is changing and summer is near?" 
Luke21:30  
Luke21:31 In the same way, when you see these prophetic signs occurring, you realize the earth is yielding to the fullness of God’s kingdom." 
Luke21:32 I assure you, the end of this age will not come until all I have spoken has come to pass." 
Luke21:33 Earth and sky will wear out and fade away before one word I speak loses its power or fails to accomplish its purpose.” 
Luke21:34 “Be careful that you never allow your hearts to grow cold. Be careful that you are not caught off guard, or your hearts will be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness, and the worries of this life, and that day will come upon you suddenly like a trap. Don’t let me come and find you drunk or living carelessly like everyone else." 
Luke21:35 For that day will come as a shocking surprise to all. 
Luke21:36 Keep a constant watch over your soul, and pray for the courage and grace to prevail over these things that are destined to occur and that you will stand before the presence of the Son of Man with a clear conscience.”" 
Luke21:37 Each day, Jesus taught in the temple and spent his nights on the Mount of Olives." 
Luke21:38 And all the people came early to the temple courts to listen to the words he taught. 
Luke22:1 As the celebration of the Passover Lamb was approaching, the Jewish religious leaders and scholars of the law continually schemed to find a way to murder Jesus without starting a riot—for they feared the crowds." 
Luke22:2  
Luke22:3 At that time Satan himself entered into Judas the locksmith, who was one of the twelve apostles." 
Luke22:4 He secretly went to the religious hierarchy and the captains of the temple guards to discuss with them how he could betray Jesus and turn him over to their hands. 
Luke22:5 The religious hierarchy was elated over Judas’ treachery, and they agreed to give him a sum of money in exchange for Jesus’ betrayal." 
Luke22:6 Judas vowed that he would find them a suitable opportunity to betray Jesus when he was away from the crowds. 
Luke22:7 On the day the Passover lambs were to be sacrificed, Jesus sent for Peter and John and instructed them, “Go and prepare the Passover supper so we can eat it together.”" 
Luke22:7 On the day the Passover lambs were to be sacrificed, Jesus sent for Peter and John and instructed them, “Go and prepare the Passover supper so we can eat it together.”" 
Luke22:8  
Luke22:9 They asked him, “Where do we make the preparations to eat the meal?”" 
Luke22:10 Jesus gave them this sign: “When you enter the city, you will find a man carrying a jug of water. Follow him home" 
Luke22:11 and say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher told us to ask you, “Where is the room I may use to have the Passover meal with my disciples?” ’" 
Luke22:12 He will then take you to a large, fully furnished upstairs room. Make the preparations for us there.”" 
Luke22:13 They went and found everything to be exactly like Jesus had prophesied, and they prepared the Passover meal." 
Luke22:14 When Jesus arrived at the upper room, he took his place at the table along with all the apostles." 
Luke22:15 Then he told them, “I have longed with passion and desire to eat this Passover lamb with you before I endure my sufferings." 
Luke22:16 I promise you that the next time we eat this, we will be together in the feast of God’s kingdom.”" 
Luke22:17 Then he raised a cup and gave thanks to God and said to them, “Take this and pass it on to one another and drink." 
Luke22:18 I promise you that the next time we drink this wine, we will be together in the feast of God’s kingdom.”" 
Luke22:19 Then he lifted up a loaf, and after praying a prayer of thanksgiving to God, he gave each of his apostles a piece of bread, saying, “This loaf is my body, which is now being offered to you. Always eat it to remember me.”" 
Luke22:20 After supper was over, he lifted the cup again and said, “This cup is my blood of the new covenant I make with you, and it will be poured out soon for all of you." 
Luke22:21 But I want you to know that the hands of the one who delivers me to be the sacrifice are with mine on the table this very moment. 
Luke22:22 The Son of Man must now go where he will be sacrificed. But there will be great and unending doom for the man who betrays me.” 
Luke22:23 The apostles questioned among themselves which one of them was about to do this. 
Luke22:24 The disciples bickered over which one of them would be considered the greatest in the kingdom. 
Luke22:25 Jesus interrupted their argument, saying, “The kings and men of authority in this world rule oppressively over their subjects, claiming that they do it for the good of the people. They are obsessed with how others see them." 
Luke22:26 But this is not your calling. You will lead by a different model. The greatest one among you will live as one called to serve others without honor. The greatest honor and authority is reserved for the one who has a servant heart. 
Luke22:27 The leaders who are served are the most important in your eyes, but in the kingdom, it is the servants who lead. Am I not here with you as one who serves?" 
Luke22:28 “Because you have stood with me through all my trials and ordeals," 
Luke22:29 I am promising you the kingdom that the Father has promised me. 
Luke22:30 We will celebrate in this kingdom and you will feast with me at my table. And each of you will be given a throne, twelve thrones in all, and you will be made rulers on thrones to judge the tribes of Israel.”" 
Luke22:31 “Peter, my dear friend, listen to what I’m about to tell you. Satan has obtained permission to come and sift you all like wheat and test your faith." 
Luke22:32 But I have prayed for you, Peter, that you would stay faithful to me no matter what comes. Remember this: after you have turned back to me and have been restored, make it your life mission to strengthen the faith of your brothers.”" 
Luke22:33 “But Lord,” Peter replied, “I am ready to stand with you to the very end, even if it means prison or death!”" 
Luke22:34 Jesus looked at him and prophesied, “Before the rooster crows in the morning, you will deny three times that you even know me.”" 
Luke22:35 Then he said to all of them, “When I sent you out empty-handed, did you lack anything?” “Not a thing,” they answered. “God provided all we needed.” Jesus said, “But now I say to you: Take what you need." 
Luke22:36 If you have money, take it —and a knapsack and a sword. Danger is imminent." 
Luke22:37 For the prophetic Scripture about me ‘He will be accused of being a criminal’ will now come to pass. All that was prophesied of me will be fulfilled.” 
Luke22:38 The disciples told him, “Lord, we already have two swords!” “You still don’t understand,” Jesus responded." 
Luke22:39 Jesus left the upper room with his disciples and, as was his habit, went to the Mount of Olives, his place of secret prayer." 
Luke22:40 There he told the apostles, “Keep praying for strength to be spared from the severe test of your faith that is about to come.”" 
Luke22:41 Then he withdrew from them a short distance to be alone. Kneeling down, he prayed," 
Luke22:42 “Father, if you are willing, take this cup of agony away from me. But no matter what, your will must be mine.”" 
Luke22:43 Jesus called for an angel of glory to strengthen him, and the angel appeared." 
Luke22:44 He prayed even more passionately, like one being sacrificed, until he was in such intense agony of spirit that his sweat became drops of blood, dripping onto the ground." 
Luke22:45 When Jesus finished praying, he got up and went to his disciples and found them all asleep, for they were exhausted and overwhelmed with sorrow." 
Luke22:46 “Why are you sleeping?” he asked them. “You need to be alert and pray for the strength to endure the great temptation.” 
Luke22:47 No sooner had he finished speaking when suddenly a mob approached, and in front of the mob was his disciple Judas. He walked up close to Jesus and greeted him with a kiss. For he had agreed to give the religious leaders a sign, saying, “The one I kiss is the one to seize.”" 
Luke22:48 Jesus looked at him with sorrow and said, “A kiss, Judas? Are you really going to betray the Son of Man with a kiss?”" 
Luke22:49 When the other disciples understood what was happening, they asked, “Lord, shall we fight them with our swords?”" 
Luke22:50 Just then, one of the disciples swung his sword at the high priest’s servant and slashed off his right ear." 
Luke22:51 Jesus stopped the incident from escalating any further by saying, “Enough of this!” Then he touched the right side of the injured man’s head and the ear grew back —he was healed!" 
Luke22:52 Jesus turned to those who had come to seize him—the ruling priests, the officers of the temple police, and the religious leaders—and said, “Am I a criminal that you come to capture me with clubs and swords? Wasn’t I with you day after day, teaching in the temple courts?" 
Luke22:53 You could have seized me at any time. But in the darkness of night you have now found your time, for it belongs to you and to the prince of darkness.”" 
Luke22:54 The religious leaders seized Jesus and led him away, but Peter followed from a safe distance. They brought him to the home of the high priest, where people were already gathered out in the courtyard." 
Luke22:55 Someone had built a fire, so Peter inched closer and sat down among them to stay warm." 
Luke22:56 A girl noticed Peter sitting in the firelight. Staring at him, she pointed him out and said, “This man is one of Jesus’ disciples!”" 
Luke22:57 Peter flatly denied it, saying, “What are you talking about, girl? I don’t know him!”" 
Luke22:58 A little while later, someone else spotted Peter and said, “I recognize you. You’re one of his, I know it!” Peter again said, “I’m not one of his disciples.”" 
Luke22:59 About an hour later, someone else identified Peter and insisted he was a disciple of Jesus, saying, “Look at him! He’s from Galilee, just like Jesus. I know he’s one of them.”" 
Luke22:60 But Peter was adamant. “Listen, I don’t know what you’re talking about. Don’t you understand? I don’t even know him.” While the words were still in his mouth, the rooster crowed." 
Luke22:61 At that moment, the Lord, who was being led through the courtyard by his captors, turned around and gazed at Peter. All at once Peter remembered the words Jesus had prophesied over him, “Before the rooster crows in the morning, you will deny three times that you even know me.”" 
Luke22:62 Peter burst into tears, ran off from the crowd, and wept bitterly." 
Luke22:63 Those who were guarding Jesus mocked and beat him severely. 
Luke22:64 They also made fun of him, blindfolding him and slapping his face and saying, “Prove that you are a prophet and tell us which one of us hit you!”" 
Luke22:65 They blasphemed and heaped insult after insult upon him. 
Luke22:66 At daybreak the high priests, the experts of the law, and the top religious leaders convened and had Jesus brought before their council." 
Luke22:67 They asked him point blank, “Tell us, are you the Christ, the Messiah, or not?” Jesus responded, “If I tell you the truth, you won’t believe me." 
Luke22:68 And if I question you, you will not answer me or release me." 
Luke22:69 But from today on, the Son of Man will be enthroned in the place of honor, power, and authority with Almighty God.”" 
Luke22:70 They all shouted, “Then you do claim to be the Son of God?” He said to them, “You are the ones who say I am.”" 
Luke22:71 They all shouted, “We’ve heard it from his very lips! What further proof do we need?”" 
Luke23:1 The entire council stood at once and took Jesus to Pilate, the Roman governor." 
Luke23:2 They accused him of false testimony, saying, “This man tells us not to pay our taxes to Caesar. And he proclaims himself to be Christ the King and Messiah. He’s a deceiver of our nation.”" 
Luke23:3 Pilate asked Jesus, “Is this true? Are you their king and Messiah?” Jesus answered, “It is true.”" 
Luke23:4 Pilate turned to the high priests and to the gathered crowd and said, “This man has committed no crime. I find nothing wrong with him.”" 
Luke23:5 But they yelled and demanded that Pilate do something, saying, “He has stirred up our nation, misleading people from the moment he began teaching in Galilee until he has come here to Jerusalem!”" 
Luke23:6 When Pilate heard the word Galilee, he asked if Jesus was a Galilean, and when they told him “yes,” Pilate saw a way out of his problem. He knew that Antipas, son of Herod, ruled over Galilee, and he happened to be in Jerusalem at that time, so Pilate sent Jesus to Antipas." 
Luke23:7  
Luke23:8 When he saw Jesus, he was elated, for he had heard a great deal about his ministry and wanted Jesus to perform a miracle in front of him." 
Luke23:9 Antipas questioned him at length, but Jesus wouldn’t even answer him." 
Luke23:10 All the while the high priests and religious leaders stood by, accusing Jesus of wrongdoing, so that Antipas and his soldiers treated him with scorn and mocking. Antipas put an elegant purple robe on Jesus and sent him back to Pilate." 
Luke23:11  
Luke23:12 That day, Antipas and Pilate healed their long-standing feud and they became good friends." 
Luke23:13 Pilate gathered together the people, the high priests, and all the religious leaders of the nation. He told them, “You have presented this man to me and charged him with stirring a rebellion among the people. I have examined him here in your presence and have put him on trial. My verdict is that none of your charges against him are true. I find no fault in him." 
Luke23:14  
Luke23:15 Then I sent him to Antipas, son of Herod, who questioned him and found him not guilty. Since he has done nothing deserving of death, I have decided to punish him with a severe flogging and release him.”" 
Luke23:16  
Luke23:17 For it was Pilate’s custom to honor the Jewish holiday by releasing a prisoner. 
Luke23:18 When the crowd heard this, they went wild. Erupting with anger, they cried out, “No! Take this one away and release Barabbas!”" 
Luke23:19 For Barabbas had been thrown in prison for robbery and murder. 
Luke23:20 Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, tried to convince them it was best to let Jesus go," 
Luke23:21 but they screamed out over and over, “Crucify him! Crucify him!”" 
Luke23:22 A third time, Pilate asked the crowd, “What evil crime has this man committed that I should have him crucified? I haven’t found one thing that warrants a death sentence! I will have him flogged severely and then release him.”" 
Luke23:23 But the people and the high priests, shouting like a mob, screamed out at the top of their lungs, “No! Crucify him! Crucify him!” Finally their shouts and screams succeeded." 
Luke23:24 Pilate caved in to the crowd and ordered that the will of the people be done. 
Luke23:25 Then he released the guilty murderer Barabbas, as they had insisted, and handed Jesus over to be crucified." 
Luke23:26 As the guards led Jesus to be crucified, there was an African man in the crowd named Simon, from Libya. He had just arrived from a rural village to keep the Feast of the Passover. The guards laid Jesus’ cross on Simon’s shoulders and forced him to walk behind Jesus, carrying his cross." 
Luke23:27 Massive crowds gathered to follow Jesus, including a number of women, who were wailing with sorrow over him." 
Luke23:28 Jesus turned to them and said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me. You should be weeping for yourselves and your children." 
Luke23:29 The day is coming when it will not be the women with children who are blessed but those who are childless. Then you will say, ‘The barren women are the most fortunate! Those who have never given birth and never nursed a child— they are more fortunate than we, for they will never see their children put to death!’" 
Luke23:30 And the people will cry out for the mountains and hills to fall on top of them to hide them from all that is to come. 
Luke23:31 For if this is what they do to the living Branch, what will they do with the dead ones?”" 
Luke23:32 The guards led away two criminals with Jesus, to execute all three at the same time." 
Luke23:33 When they came to the place that is known as The Skull, the guards crucified Jesus, nailing him on the center cross between the two criminals." 
Luke23:34 While they were nailing Jesus to the cross, he prayed over and over, “Father, forgive them, for they don’t know what they’re doing.” The soldiers, after they crucified him, gambled over his clothing." 
Luke23:35 A great crowd gathered to watch what was happening. The religious leaders sneered at Jesus and mocked him, saying, “Look at this man! What kind of ‘chosen Messiah’ is this? He pretended to save others, but he can’t even save himself!”" 
Luke23:36 The soldiers joined in the mockery, offering Jesus a drink of vinegar." 
Luke23:37 Over Jesus’ head on the cross was written an inscription in Greek, Latin, and Aramaic: “This man is the king of all the Jews.” And all the soldiers laughed and scoffed at him, saying, “Hey! If you’re the king of Jews, why don’t you save yourself?”" 
Luke23:38  
Luke23:39 One of the criminals hanging on the cross next to Jesus kept ridiculing him, saying, “What kind of Messiah are you? Save yourself and save us from this death!”" 
Luke23:40 The criminal hanging on the other cross rebuked the man, saying, “Don’t you fear God? You’re about to die!" 
Luke23:41 We deserve to be condemned. We’re just being repaid for what we’ve done. But this man—he’s done nothing wrong!” 
Luke23:42 Then he said, “I beg of you, Jesus, show me grace and take me with you into your everlasting kingdom!”" 
Luke23:43 Jesus responded, “I promise you—this very day you will enter paradise with me.”" 
Luke23:44 It was now only midday, yet the whole world became dark for three hours as the light of the sun faded away." 
Luke23:45 And suddenly in the temple the thick veil hanging in the Holy Place was ripped in two! 
Luke23:46 Then Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “Father, I surrender my Spirit into your hands.” And he took his last breath and died." 
Luke23:47 When the Roman captain overseeing the crucifixion witnessed all that took place, he was awestruck and glorified God. Acknowledging what they had done, he said, “I have no doubt; we just killed the righteous one.”" 
Luke23:48 The crowds that had gathered to observe this spectacle went back to their homes, overcome with deep sorrow and devastated by what they had witnessed." 
Luke23:49 But standing off at a distance were some who truly knew Jesus, and the women who had followed him all the way from Galilee were keeping vigil." 
Luke23:50 There was also a member of the Jewish council named Joseph, from the village of Ramah, a good-hearted, honorable man who was eager for God’s kingdom to appear. He had strongly disagreed with the decision of the council to crucify Jesus." 
Luke23:51  
Luke23:52 He came before Pilate and asked permission to take the body of Jesus for a proper burial, and Pilate granted his request." 
Luke23:53 So he took the body from the cross, wrapped it in a winding sheet of linen, and placed it in a new, unused tomb chiseled out of solid rock." 
Luke23:54 It was Preparation Day, and the Sabbath was fast approaching." 
Luke23:55 The women who had been companions of Jesus from the beginning saw all this take place and carefully contemplated how the body was laid in the tomb. 
Luke23:56 Afterward they returned home and prepared fragrant spices and ointments and were planning to anoint his body after the Sabbath was completed, according to the commandments of the law." 
Luke24:1 Very early that Sunday morning, the women made their way to the tomb, carrying the spices they had prepared. (10) Among them were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, and Jesus’ mother Mary." 
Luke24:2 Arriving at the tomb they discovered that the huge stone covering the entrance had been rolled aside," 
Luke24:3 so they went in to look. But the tomb was empty. The body of Jesus was gone! 
Luke24:4 They stood there, stunned and perplexed. Suddenly, two men appeared above them in dazzling white robes shining like lightning." 
Luke24:5 Terrified, the women fell to the ground on their faces. The men in white said to them, “Why would you look for the Living One in a tomb? He is not here, for he has risen!" 
Luke24:6 Have you forgotten what he said to you while he was still in Galilee: 
Luke24:7 ‘The destiny of the Son of Man is to be handed over to sinful men, to be nailed to a cross, and on the third day to rise again’?”" 
Luke24:8 All at once they remembered his words. 
Luke24:9 Leaving the tomb, they went to break the news to the Eleven and to all the others of what they had seen and heard." 
Luke24:10  
Luke24:11 When the disciples heard the testimony of the women, it made no sense, and they were unable to believe what they heard." 
Luke24:12 But Peter jumped up and ran the entire distance to the tomb to see for himself. Stooping down, he looked inside and discovered it was empty! There was only the linen sheet lying there. Staggered by this, he walked away, wondering what it meant." 
Luke24:13 Later that same day, two of Jesus’ disciples were walking from Jerusalem to Emmaus, a journey of about seventeen miles." 
Luke24:14 They were in the midst of a discussion about all the events of the last few days when Jesus walked up and accompanied them in their journey. 
Luke24:15  
Luke24:16 They were unaware that it was actually Jesus walking alongside them, for God prevented them from recognizing him." 
Luke24:17 Jesus said to them, “You seem to be in a deep discussion about something. What are you talking about, so sad and gloomy?” They stopped, and the one named Cleopas answered, “Haven’t you heard? Are you the only one in Jerusalem unaware of the things that have happened over the last few days?”" 
Luke24:18  
Luke24:19 Jesus asked, “What things?” “The things about Jesus, the man from Nazareth,” they replied. “He was a mighty prophet of God who performed miracles and wonders. His words were powerful and he had great favor with God and the people." 
Luke24:20 But three days ago the high priest and the rulers of the people sentenced him to death and had him crucified. We had all hoped that he was the one who would redeem and rescue Israel. 
Luke24:21  
Luke24:22 Early this morning, some of the women informed us of something amazing." 
Luke24:23 They said they went to the tomb and found it empty. They claimed two angels appeared and told them that Jesus is now alive. 
Luke24:24 Some of us went to see for ourselves and found the tomb exactly as the women had said. But no one has seen him.” 
Luke24:25 Jesus said to them, “Why are you so thick-headed? Why do you find it so hard to believe every word the prophets have spoken?" 
Luke24:26 Wasn’t it necessary for the Messiah to experience all these sufferings and afterward to enter into his glory?” 
Luke24:27 And beginning with Moses and all the prophets he carefully unveiled to them the revelation of himself throughout the Scriptures. 
Luke24:28 As they approached the village, Jesus walked on ahead, telling them he was going on to a distant place." 
Luke24:29 They urged him to remain there with them and pleaded, “Stay with us. It will be dark soon.” So Jesus went with them into the village." 
Luke24:30 Joining them at the table for supper, he took bread and blessed it and broke it, then gave it to them." 
Luke24:31 All at once their eyes were opened and they realized he was Jesus! Then suddenly, in a flash, Jesus vanished from before their eyes!" 
Luke24:32 Stunned, they looked at each other and said, “Why didn’t we recognize him? Didn’t our hearts burn with the flames of holy passion while we walked beside him? He unveiled for us such profound revelation from the Scriptures!”" 
Luke24:33 They left at once and hurried back to Jerusalem to tell the other disciples. When they found the Eleven and the other disciples all together," 
Luke24:34 they overheard them saying, “It’s really true! The Lord has risen from the dead. He even appeared to Peter!”" 
Luke24:35 Then the two disciples told the others what had happened to them on the road to Emmaus and how Jesus had unveiled himself in the breaking of bread. 
Luke24:36 While they were still discussing all of this, Jesus suddenly appeared right in front of their eyes! Startled and terrified, the disciples were convinced they were seeing a ghost. Standing there among them he said, “Be at peace. I am the living God. Don’t be afraid." 
Luke24:37  
Luke24:38 Why are you so frightened? Don’t let doubt enter your hearts. 
Luke24:39 See my pierced hands and feet. See for yourselves, it is I, standing here alive. Touch me and know that my wounds are real. A spirit does not have a body of flesh and bone as you see that I have.”" 
Luke24:40 Then he showed them his pierced hands and feet and let them touch his wounds. 
Luke24:41 The disciples were ecstatic, yet dumbfounded, unable to fully comprehend it. Knowing that they were still wondering if he was real, Jesus said, “Here, let me show you. Give me something to eat.”" 
Luke24:42 They handed him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb. And they watched him eat. 
Luke24:43  
Luke24:44 Then he said to them, “Don’t you remember the words that I spoke to you when I was still with you? I told you that I would fulfill everything written about me, including all the prophecies from the law of Moses through the Psalms and the writings of the prophets.”" 
Luke24:45 He supernaturally unlocked their understanding to receive the revelation of the Scriptures," 
Luke24:46 and said to them, “Everything that has happened fulfills what the Scriptures prophesied of me. The Messiah was destined to suffer and rise from the dead on the third day." 
Luke24:47 Now you must go into all the nations and preach repentance and forgiveness of sins so that they will turn to me. Start right here in Jerusalem," 
Luke24:48 for you are my witnesses and have seen for yourselves all that has transpired. 
Luke24:49 I will send the fulfillment of the Father’s promise to you, so stay here in the city until you are clothed with the mighty power of heaven.”" 
Luke24:50 Jesus led his disciples out to Bethany. He lifted his hands over them and blessed them in his love. 
Luke24:51 While he was still speaking words of love and blessing, he floated off the ground into the sky, ascending into heaven before their very eyes!" 
Luke24:52 And all they could do was worship him. Overwhelmed and ecstatic with joy, they made their way back to Jerusalem." 
Luke24:53 Every day they went to the temple, to praise and worship God." 
John1:1 In the beginning the Living Expression was already there. And the Living Expression was with God, yet fully God." 
John1:2 They were together— face-to-face, in the very beginning." 
John1:3 And through his creative inspiration this Living Expression made all things, for nothing has existence apart from him!" 
John1:4 A fountain of life was in him, for his life is light for all humanity." 
John1:5 And this Light never fails to shine through darkness— Light that darkness could not overcome! 
John1:6 Suddenly a man appeared who was sent from God, a messenger named John." 
John1:7 For he came as a witness, to point the way to the Light of Life, and to help everyone believe." 
John1:8 John was not that Light but he came to show who is. For he was merely a messenger to speak the truth about the Light. 
John1:9 For the perfect Light of Truth was coming into the world and shine upon everyone. 
John1:10 He entered into the world he created, yet the world was unaware." 
John1:11 He came to the people he created — to those who should have received him, but they did not recognize him." 
John1:12 But those who embraced him and took hold of his name he gave authority to become the children of God! 
John1:13 He was not born by the joining of human parents or from natural means, or by a man’s desire, but he was born of God." 
John1:14 And so the Living Expression became a man and lived among us! We gazed upon his glory, the glory of the One and Only who came from the Father overflowing with tender mercy and truth!" 
John1:15 John announced the truth about him when he taught the people, “He’s the One! He’s the One I’ve been telling you would come after me, even though he ranks far above me, because he existed before I was even born.”" 
John1:16 And from the overflow of his fullness we received grace heaped upon more grace! 
John1:17 Moses gave us the Law, but Jesus, the Anointed One, unveils truth wrapped in tender mercy." 
John1:18 No one ever before gazed upon the full splendor of God except his uniquely beloved Son, who is cherished by the Father and held close to his heart. Now that he has come to us, he has unfolded the full explanation of who God truly is!" 
John1:19 Now this was John’s testimony when some of the Jewish leaders sent an entourage of priests and temple servants from Jerusalem to interrogate him. “Who are you?” they asked him. 
John1:20 John answered them directly, saying, “I am not the Messiah!”" 
John1:21 “Then who are you?” they asked. “Are you Elijah?” “No,” John replied. So they pressed him further, “Are you the prophet Moses said was coming, the one we’re expecting?” “No,” he replied." 
John1:22 “Then who are you?” they demanded. “We need an answer for those who sent us. Tell us something about yourself—anything!” 
John1:23 John answered them, “I am an urgent, thunderous voice crying out in the desert—clear the way and prepare your hearts for the coming of the Lord Yahweh!”" 
John1:24 Then some members of the religious sect known as the Pharisees questioned John," 
John1:25 “Why do you baptize the people if you are neither the Messiah, Elijah, nor the Prophet?”" 
John1:26 John answered them, “I baptize the people in this river, but the One who will take my place is to be more honored than I, but even when he stands among you, you will not recognize or embrace him! I am not worthy enough to stoop down in front of him and untie his sandals!”" 
John1:27  
John1:28 All these events took place at Bethany, where John was baptizing at the place of the crossing of the Jordan River." 
John1:29 The very next day, John saw Jesus coming to him to be baptized, and John cried out, “Look! There he is—God’s Lamb! He takes away the sin of the entire world!" 
John1:30 I told you that a Mighty One would come who is far greater than I am, because he existed long before I was born!" 
John1:31 My baptism was for the preparation of his appearing to Israel, even though I didn’t recognize him.”" 
John1:32 Then, as he baptized Jesus, he proclaimed these words: “I see the Spirit of God appear like a dove descending from the heavenly realm and landing upon him—and it remained on him!" 
John1:33 Before this I didn’t know who he was. But the one who sent me to baptize with water had told me, ‘You will see the Spirit come down and stay on someone. He will be the One I have sent to baptize with the Holy Spirit.’" 
John1:34 Now I have seen this happen and I can tell you for sure that this man is the Son of God.” 
John1:35 The next day, Jesus walked right past where John and two of his disciples were standing. John, gazing upon Jesus, pointed to him and prophesied, “Look! There’s God’s sacrificial Lamb!”" 
John1:36  
John1:37 And as soon as John’s two disciples heard this, they immediately left John and began to follow a short distance behind Jesus." 
John1:38 Jesus turned around and saw they were following him and asked, “What do you want?” They responded, “Rabbi (which means, Master Teacher), where are you staying?”" 
John1:39 Jesus answered, “Come and discover for yourselves.” So they went with him and saw where he was staying, and since it was late in the afternoon, they spent the rest of the day with Jesus." 
John1:40 One of the two disciples who heard John’s words and began to follow Jesus was a man named Andrew. He first found his brother, Simon Peter, and told him, “We have found the Anointed One!” (Which is translated, the Christ.)" 
John1:41  
John1:42 Then Andrew brought Simon to meet Jesus. When he gazed upon Andrew’s brother, he prophesied to him, “You are Simon and your father’s name is John. But from now on, everyone will call you Cephas” (which means, Peter the Rock)." 
John1:43 The next day, Jesus decided to go to Galilee, where he found Philip. Jesus said to him, “Come and follow me.”" 
John1:44 (Now Philip, Andrew, and Peter had all grown up together in the village of Bethsaida.)" 
John1:45 Philip went to look for his friend, Nathanael, and told him, “We’ve found him! We’ve found the One we’ve been waiting for! It’s Jesus, son of Joseph from Nazareth! He’s the One whom Moses and the prophets prophesied would come!”" 
John1:46 Nathanael sneered, “Nazareth! What good thing could ever come from Nazareth?” Philip answered, “Come and let’s find out!”" 
John1:47 When Jesus saw Nathanael approaching, he said, “Here comes a true son of Israel—an honest man with no hidden motive!”" 
John1:48 Nathanael was stunned and said, “But you’ve never met me—how do you know anything about me?” Jesus answered, “Nathanael, right before Philip came to you, I saw you sitting under the shade of a fig tree.”" 
John1:49 Nathanael blurted out, “Teacher, you are truly the Son of God and the King of Israel!”" 
John1:50 Jesus answered, “Do you believe simply because I told you I saw you sitting under a fig tree? You will experience even more impressive things than that!" 
John1:51 I prophesy to you eternal truth: From now on, you all will see an open heaven and gaze upon the Son of Man like a stairway reaching into the sky with the messengers of God climbing up and down upon him!”" 
John2:1 Now on the third day, Jesus’ mother went to a wedding feast in the Galilean village of Cana." 
John2:2 Jesus and his disciples were all invited to the banquet, but with so many guests, they ran out of wine. And when Mary realized it, she came to Jesus and asked, “They have no wine; can’t you do something about it?”" 
John2:3  
John2:4 Jesus replied, “My dear one, don’t you understand that if I do this, it will change nothing for you, but it will change everything for me! My hour of unveiling my power has not yet come.”" 
John2:5 Mary then went to the servers and told them, “Whatever Jesus tells you, do it!”" 
John2:6 Nearby stood six stone water pots meant to be used for the Jewish washing rituals. Each one could hold about twenty gallons or more. 
John2:7 Jesus came to the servers and instructed them, “Fill the pots with water, right up to the very brim. ”" 
John2:8 Then he said, “Now fill your pitchers and take them to the master of ceremonies.”" 
John2:9 And when they poured out their pitchers for the master of ceremonies to sample, the water had become wine! When he tasted the water that had become wine, the master of ceremonies was impressed with its quality. (Although he didn’t know where the wine had come from, only the servers knew.) He called the bridegroom over" 
John2:10 and said to him, “Every host serves his best wine first, until everyone has had a cup or two, then he serves the cheaper wine. But you, my friend, you’ve reserved the most exquisite wine until now!”" 
John2:11 This miracle in Cana was the first of the many extraordinary miracles Jesus performed in Galilee that revealed his glory, and his disciples believed in him." 
John2:12 After the wedding, Jesus, his mother and brothers, and his disciples traveled to Capernaum and stayed there for a few days." 
John2:13 When the time was close for the Jewish Passover to begin, Jesus walked to Jerusalem." 
John2:14 As he went into the temple courtyard, he noticed it was filled with merchants selling oxen, lambs, and doves for exorbitant prices, while others were overcharging as they exchanged currency behind their counters." 
John2:15 So Jesus found some cords and made them into a whip. Then he drove out every one of them and their animals from the courtyard of the temple, and he kicked over their tables filled with money, scattering it everywhere!" 
John2:16 And he told the merchants, “Get these things out of here! Don’t you dare commercialize my Father’s house!”" 
John2:17 That’s when his disciples remembered the Scripture: “I am consumed with a fiery passion to keep your house pure!” 
John2:18 Then the Jewish religious leaders challenged Jesus, “What authority do you have to do this sort of thing and what supernatural sign will you show us to prove it?”" 
John2:19 Jesus answered, “Destroy this temple, and I will raise it up again in three days.”" 
John2:20 Then the Jewish leaders sneered at Jesus’ answer, “This temple took forty-six years to build, and you mean to tell us that you will raise it up in three days?”" 
John2:21 But they failed to understand that Jesus was speaking of the “temple” of his body. 
John2:22 The disciples remembered his prophecy after Jesus rose from the dead, and believed both the Scripture and what Jesus had said." 
John2:23 While Jesus was at the Passover Feast, the number of his followers began to grow, and many gave their allegiance to him because of all the miraculous signs they had seen him doing!" 
John2:24 But Jesus did not yet entrust himself to them, because he knew how fickle human hearts can be." 
John2:25 He needed no one to tell him about human nature, for he fully understood what man was capable of doing." 
John3:1 Now there was a prominent religious leader among the Jews named Nicodemus, who was part of the sect called the Pharisees." 
John3:2 One night he discreetly came to Jesus and said, “Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one performs the miracle signs that you do, unless God’s power is with him.”" 
John3:3 Jesus answered, “Nicodemus, listen to this eternal truth: Before a person can even perceive God’s kingdom, they must first experience a rebirth.”" 
John3:4 Nicodemus said, “Rebirth? How can a gray-headed man be reborn? It’s impossible for anyone to go back into the womb a second time and be reborn!”" 
John3:5 Jesus answered, “I speak an eternal truth: Unless you are born of water and the Spirit, you will never enter God’s kingdom." 
John3:6 For the natural realm only gives birth to things that are natural, but the spiritual realm gives birth to supernatural life!" 
John3:7 “You shouldn’t be amazed by my statement, ‘You all must be born from above!’" 
John3:8 For the Spirit-Wind blows as it chooses. You can hear its sound, but you don’t know where it came from or where it’s going. So it is the same with those who are Spirit-born!”" 
John3:9 Nicodemus replied, “I don’t understand; what do you mean? How does this happen?”" 
John3:10 Jesus answered, “Nicodemus, aren’t you the respected teacher in Israel, and yet you don’t understand this revelation?" 
John3:11 I speak eternal truths about things I know, things I’ve seen and experienced—and still you don’t accept what I reveal." 
John3:12 If you’re unable to believe what I’ve told you about the natural realm, what will you do when I begin to unveil the heavenly realm?" 
John3:13 No one has risen into the heavenly realm except the Son of Man who also exists in heaven.” 
John3:14 “And just as Moses in the desert lifted up the brass replica of a venomous snake on a pole for all the people to see and be healed, so the Son of Man is ready to be lifted up," 
John3:15 so that those who truly believe in him will not perish but be given eternal life. 
John3:16 For here is the way God loved the world—he gave his only, unique Son as a gift. So now everyone who believes in him will never perish but experience everlasting life." 
John3:17 “God did not send his Son into the world to judge and condemn the world, but to be its Savior and rescue it!" 
John3:18 So now there is no longer any condemnation for those who believe in him, but the unbeliever already lives under condemnation because they do not believe in the name of the only Son of God." 
John3:19 And here is the basis for their judgment: The Light of God has now come into the world, but the people loved darkness more than the Light, because they want the darkness to conceal their evil." 
John3:20 So the wicked hate the Light and try to hide from it, for the Light fully exposes their lives." 
John3:21 But those who love the truth will come into the Light, for the Light will reveal that it was God who produced their fruitful works.”" 
John3:22 Then Jesus and his disciples left for a length of time into the Judean countryside where they baptized the people. 
John3:22 Then Jesus and his disciples left for a length of time into the Judean countryside where they baptized the people. 
John3:23 At this time John was still baptizing people at Aenon, near Salim, where there was plenty of water, and the people kept coming for John to baptize them." 
John3:24 (This was before John was thrown into prison.) 
John3:25 An argument started between John’s disciples and a particular Jewish man about baptism. 
John3:26 So they went to John and asked him, “Teacher, are you aware that the One you told us about at the crossing place—he’s now baptizing crowds larger than yours. People are flocking to him!”" 
John3:27 John answered them, “A person cannot receive even one thing unless God bestows it." 
John3:28 You’ve heard me tell you that I am not the Messiah, but certainly I am the messenger sent ahead of him." 
John3:29 He is the Bridegroom, and the bride belongs to him. I am the friend of the Bridegroom who stands nearby and listens with great joy to the Bridegroom’s voice. Because of his words, my joy is complete and overflows!" 
John3:30 It is necessary for him to increase and for me to decrease. 
John3:31 “For the one who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks from the natural realm. But the One who comes from above is above everything and speaks of the highest realm of all! 
John3:32 His message is about what he has seen and experienced, even though people don’t accept it." 
John3:33 Yet those who embrace his message know in their hearts that it’s the truth. 
John3:34 “The One whom God has sent to represent him will speak the words of God, because God has poured out upon him the fullness of the Holy Spirit without limitation." 
John3:35 The Father loves his Son so much that he has given all things into his hands. 
John3:36 Those who trust in the Son possess eternal life; those who don’t obey the Son will not see life, and God’s anger will rise up against them.”" 
John4:1 The news quickly reached the Jewish religious leaders known as the Pharisees that Jesus was drawing greater crowds of followers coming to be baptized than John. 
John4:2 (Although Jesus himself didn’t baptize, but only his disciples.)" 
John4:3 Jesus heard what was being said and abruptly left Judea and returned to the province of Galilee," 
John4:3 Jesus heard what was being said and abruptly left Judea and returned to the province of Galilee," 
John4:4 and he had to pass through Samaria. 
John4:5 Jesus arrived at the Samaritan village of Sychar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph." 
John4:6 Wearied by his long journey, he sat on the edge of Jacob’s well, and sent his disciples into the village to buy food, for it was already afternoon. Soon a Samaritan woman came to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give me a drink.”" 
John4:7  
John4:8  
John4:9 She replied, “Why would a Jewish man ask a Samaritan woman for a drink of water?” (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)" 
John4:10 Jesus replied, “If you only knew who I am and the gift that God wants to give you, you’d ask me for a drink, and I would give you living water.”" 
John4:11 The woman replied, “But sir, you don’t even have a bucket, and the well is very deep. So where do you find this ‘living water’?" 
John4:12 Do you really think that you are greater than our ancestor Jacob who dug this well and drank from it himself, along with his children and livestock?”" 
John4:13 Jesus answered, “If you drink from Jacob’s well, you’ll be thirsty again," 
John4:14 but if anyone drinks the living water I give them, they will never be thirsty again. For when you drink the water I give you, it becomes a gushing fountain of the Holy Spirit, flooding you with endless life!”" 
John4:15 The woman replied, “Let me drink that water so I’ll never be thirsty again and won’t have to come back here to draw water.”" 
John4:16 Jesus said, “Go get your husband and bring him back here.”" 
John4:17 “But I’m not married,” the woman answered. “That’s true,” Jesus said," 
John4:18 “for you’ve been married five times, and now you’re living with a man who is not your husband. You have told the truth.”" 
John4:19 The woman changed the subject. “You must be a prophet! 
John4:20 So tell me this: Why do our fathers worship God on this nearby mountain, but your people teach that Jerusalem is the place where we must worship. Who is right?” Jesus responded," 
John4:21 “Believe me, dear woman, the time has come when you will worship the Father neither on a mountain nor in Jerusalem, but in your heart." 
John4:22 Your people don’t really know the One they worship, but we Jews worship out of our experience, for it’s from the Jews that salvation is available." 
John4:23 From now on, worshiping the Father will not be a matter of the right place but with a right heart. For God is a Spirit, and he longs to have sincere worshipers who adore him in the realm of the Spirit and in truth.”" 
John4:24  
John4:25 The woman said, “ This is all so confusing, but I do know that the Anointed One is coming—the true Messiah. And when he comes, he will tell us everything we need to know.”" 
John4:26 Jesus said to her, “You don’t have to wait any longer, the Anointed One is here speaking with you—I am the One you’re looking for.”" 
John4:27 At that moment, his disciples returned and were stunned to see Jesus speaking with a Samaritan woman, yet none of them dared ask him why or what they were discussing." 
John4:28 All at once, the woman left her water jar and ran off to her village and told everyone," 
John4:29 “Come and meet a man at the well who told me everything I’ve ever done! He could be the One we’ve been waiting for.” 
John4:30 Hearing this, the people came streaming out of the village to go see Jesus." 
John4:31 Then the disciples began to insist that Jesus eat some of the food they brought back with them, saying, “Teacher, you must eat something.”" 
John4:32 But Jesus told them, “I have eaten a meal you don’t know about.”" 
John4:33 Puzzled by this, the disciples began to discuss it among themselves, “Did someone already bring him food?”" 
John4:34 To clarify, Jesus spoke up and said, “My food is to do the will of him who sent me and bring it to completion.”" 
John4:35 As the crowds emerged from the village, Jesus said to his disciples, “Why would you say, ‘The harvest is another four months away’? Look at all the people coming—now is harvest time! Their hearts are like vast fields of ripened grain—ready for a harvest." 
John4:36 Everyone who reaps these souls for eternal life will receive a reward. Both those who plant spiritual seeds and those who reap the spiritual harvest will celebrate together with great joy! 
John4:37 And this confirms the saying, ‘One sows the seed and another reaps the harvest.’" 
John4:38 I have sent you out to harvest a field that you haven’t planted, where many others have labored long and hard before you. And now you are privileged to profit from their labors and reap the harvest.”" 
John4:39 Many from the Samaritan village became believers in Jesus because of the woman’s testimony: “He told me everything I ever did!” 
John4:40 Then they begged Jesus to stay with them, so he stayed there for two days," 
John4:41 resulting in many more coming to faith in him because of his message. 
John4:42 The Samaritans said to the woman, “Now we’ve heard him ourselves. We no longer believe just because of what you told us, but we’re convinced that he really is the true Savior of the world!”" 
John4:43 On the third day Jesus left there and continued his journey to Galilee, where he had been raised." 
John4:44 Now Jesus knew that prophets are honored everywhere except in their own hometown. 
John4:45 Even so, as Jesus arrived in the province of Galilee, the people welcomed him with open arms. Many of them had been in Jerusalem during the Passover Festival and had witnessed firsthand the miracles he had performed." 
John4:46 Jesus entered the village of Cana of Galilee where he had transformed water into wine. He met there a governmental official from Capernaum whose son was very sick and dying. When he heard that Jesus had left Judea and was staying in Cana of Galilee, he decided to make the journey to Cana. When he found Jesus, he begged him, “You must come with me to Capernaum and heal my son!”" 
John4:46 Jesus entered the village of Cana of Galilee where he had transformed water into wine. He met there a governmental official from Capernaum whose son was very sick and dying. When he heard that Jesus had left Judea and was staying in Cana of Galilee, he decided to make the journey to Cana. When he found Jesus, he begged him, “You must come with me to Capernaum and heal my son!”" 
John4:47  
John4:48 So Jesus said to him, “You never believe unless you see signs and wonders.”" 
John4:49 But the man continued to plead, “Come with me to Capernaum before my little boy dies!”" 
John4:50 Jesus looked him in the eyes and said, “Go back home now. I promise you, your son will live.” The man believed in his heart the words of Jesus and set off for home." 
John4:51 When he was still a distance from Capernaum, his servants met him on the road and told him the good news, “Your son is healed! He’s alive!”" 
John4:52 Overjoyed, the father asked his servants, “When did my son begin to recover?” “Yesterday,” they said, “at one in the afternoon. All at once his fever broke— and now he’s well!”" 
John4:53 Then the father immediately realized that it was at that very same hour that Jesus spoke the words to him, “Your son will live.” From that day forward, the man, his servants, and all his family believed." 
John4:54 Healing the official’s son was Jesus’ second extraordinary miracle in Galilee after returning from Judea. 
John4:54 Healing the official’s son was Jesus’ second extraordinary miracle in Galilee after returning from Judea. 
John5:1 From Galilee, Jesus returned to Jerusalem to observe one of the Jewish feasts." 
John5:2 Inside the city, near the Sheep Gate, there is a pool called in Aramaic, The House of Loving Kindness, surrounded by five covered porches." 
John5:3 Hundreds of sick people were lying under the covered porches—the paralyzed, the blind, and the crippled—all of them waiting for their healing." 
John5:4 For an angel of God periodically descended into the pool to stir the waters, and the first one who stepped into the pool after the waters swirled would instantly be healed." 
John5:5 Among the many sick people lying there was a man who had been disabled for thirty-eight years. 
John5:6 When Jesus saw him lying there, he knew that the man had been crippled for a long time. Jesus said to him, “Do you truly long to be well?”" 
John5:7 The sick man answered, “Sir, there’s no way I can get healed, for I have no one to lower me into the water when the angel comes. As soon as I try to crawl to the edge of the pool, someone else jumps in ahead of me.”" 
John5:8 Jesus said to him, “Stand up! Pick up your sleeping mat and you will walk!”" 
John5:9 Immediately he stood up—he was healed! So he rolled up his mat and walked again! Now Jesus worked this miracle on the Sabbath. 
John5:10 When the Jewish leaders saw the man walking along carrying his sleeping mat, they objected and said, “What are you doing carrying that? Don’t you know it’s the Sabbath? It’s not lawful for you to carry things on the Sabbath!”" 
John5:11 He answered them, “The man who healed me told me to pick it up and walk.”" 
John5:12 “What man?” they asked him. “Who was this man who ordered you to carry something on a Sabbath?” 
John5:13 But the healed man couldn’t give them an answer, for he didn’t yet know who it was, since Jesus had already slipped away into the crowd." 
John5:14 A short time later, Jesus found the man at the temple and said to him, “Look at you now! You’re healed! Walk away from your sin so that nothing worse will happen to you.”" 
John5:15 Then the man went to the Jewish leaders to inform them, “It was Jesus who healed me!”" 
John5:16 From that day forward the Jewish leaders began to persecute Jesus because of the things he did on the Sabbath. 
John5:17 Jesus answered his critics by saying, “Every day my Father is at work, and I will be, too!”" 
John5:18 This infuriated them and made them all the more eager to devise a plan to kill him. For not only did he break their Sabbath rules, but he also called God “my Father,” which made him equal to God." 
John5:19 So Jesus said, “I speak to you eternal truth. The Son is unable to do anything from himself or through his own initiative. I only do the works that I see the Father doing, for the Son does the same works as his Father." 
John5:20 “Because the Father loves his Son so much, he always reveals to him everything that he is about to do. And you will all be amazed when he shows him even greater works than what you’ve seen so far!" 
John5:21 For just as the Father has power to raise the dead, the Son will also raise the dead and give life to whomever he wants." 
John5:22 “The Father judges no one, for he has given to the Son all the authority to judge." 
John5:23 Therefore, the honor that belongs to the Father he will now share with his Son. So if you refuse to honor the Son, you are refusing to honor the Father who sent him." 
John5:24 “I speak to you an eternal truth: if you embrace my message and believe in the One who sent me, you will never face condemnation. In me, you have already passed from the realm of death into eternal life!”" 
John5:25 “I speak to you an eternal truth: Soon the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who listen will arise with life!" 
John5:26 For as the Father is the source of life, so he has given the Son the power to impart life." 
John5:27 The Father has transferred to the Son the authority to judge, because he is the Son of Man." 
John5:28 “Don’t be amazed when I tell you these things, for there is a day coming when everyone who has ever died will hear my voice calling them back to life," 
John5:29 and they will come out of their graves! Those who have done what is good will experience a resurrection to eternal life. And those who have practiced evil will taste the resurrection of judgment! 
John5:30 “Nothing I do is from my own initiative. As I hear the judgment passed by my Father, I execute those judgments. And my judgments will be perfect, because I seek only to fulfill the desires of my Father who sent me." 
John5:31 If I were to make claims about myself, you would have reasons to doubt." 
John5:32 But there is another who bears witness on my behalf, and I know that what he testifies of me is true.”" 
John5:33 “You have sent messengers to John, and what he testified about me is true." 
John5:34 I have no need to be validated by men, but I’m explaining these things so that you will believe and be saved." 
John5:35 “John was a blazing, shining torch, and for a short time, you basked in his light with great joy." 
John5:36 But I can provide more substantial proof of who I am that exceeds John’s testimony—my miracles! These works which the Father destined for me to complete—they prove that the Father has sent me! 
John5:37 And my Father himself, who gave me this mission, has also testified that I am his Son. But you have never heard his voice nor seen his form," 
John5:38 nor does his Word truly live inside of you, for you refuse to believe in me or to embrace me as God’s messenger." 
John5:39 “You are busy analyzing the Scriptures, poring over them hoping to gain eternal life. Everything you read points to me," 
John5:40 yet you still refuse to come to me so I can give you the life you’re looking for—eternal life! 
John5:41 “I do not accept the honor that comes from men," 
John5:42 for I know what kind of people you really are, and I can see that the love of God has found no home in you." 
John5:43 I have come to represent my Father, yet you refuse to embrace me in faith. If someone comes in their own name and with their own agenda, you readily accept him." 
John5:44 Of course you’re unable to believe in me. For you live to enjoy the praises of others and not the praise that comes from the one true God. 
John5:45 “I will not accuse you before the Father. The one who will incriminate you is Moses, the very one you claim to obey, the one in whom you trust!" 
John5:46 If you really believed what Moses has written, then you would embrace me, for Moses wrote about me!" 
John5:47 But since you do not believe what he wrote, no wonder you don’t believe what I say.”" 
John6:1 After this Jesus went to the other side of the Lake of Tiberias, which is also known as Lake Galilee." 
John6:2 And a massive crowd of people followed him everywhere. They were attracted by his miracles and the healings they watched him perform. 
John6:3 Jesus went up the slope of a hill and sat down with his disciples. 
John6:4 Now it was approaching the time of the Jewish celebration of Passover, and there were many pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem in the crowd." 
John6:5 As Jesus sat down, he looked out and saw the massive crowd of people scrambling up the hill, for they wanted to be near him. So he turned to Philip and said, “Where will we buy enough food to feed all these people?”" 
John6:6 Now Jesus already knew what he was about to do, but he said this to stretch Philip’s faith." 
John6:7 Philip answered, “Well, I suppose if we were to give everyone only a snack, it would cost thousands of dollars to buy enough food!”" 
John6:8 But just then, Andrew, Peter’s brother, spoke up and said," 
John6:9 “Look! Here’s a young person with five barley loaves and two small fish . . . but how far would that go with this huge crowd?” 
John6:10 “Have everyone sit down,” Jesus said to his disciples. So on the vast grassy slope, more than five thousand hungry people sat down." 
John6:11 Jesus then took the barley loaves and the fish and gave thanks to God. He then gave it to the disciples to distribute to the people. Miraculously, the food multiplied, with everyone eating as much as they wanted!" 
John6:12 When everyone was satisfied, Jesus told his disciples, “Now go back and gather up the pieces left over so that nothing will be wasted.”" 
John6:13 The disciples filled up twelve baskets of fragments, a basket of leftovers for each disciple." 
John6:14 All the people were astounded as they saw with their own eyes the incredible miracle Jesus had performed! They began to say among themselves, “He really is the One—the true prophet we’ve been expecting!”" 
John6:15 So Jesus, knowing that they were about to take him and make him their king by force, quickly left and went up the mountainside alone." 
John6:16 After waiting until evening for Jesus to return, the disciples went down to the lake. But as darkness fell, he still hadn’t returned, so the disciples got into a boat and headed across the lake to Capernaum." 
John6:17  
John6:18 By now a strong wind began to blow and was stirring up the waters. 
John6:19 The disciples had rowed about halfway across the lake when all of a sudden they caught sight of Jesus walking on top of the waves, coming toward them. The disciples panicked," 
John6:20 but Jesus called out to them, “Don’t be afraid. You know who I am.”" 
John6:21 They were relieved to take him in, and the moment Jesus stepped into the boat, they were instantly transported to the other side!" 
John6:22 The next morning, the crowds were still on the opposite shore of the lake, near the place where they had eaten the bread he had multiplied after he had given thanks to God. Yet Jesus was nowhere to be found. They realized that only one boat had been there and that Jesus’ hadn’t boarded, and they concluded that his disciples had left him behind." 
John6:23  
John6:24 So when the people saw on the shoreline a number of small boats from Tiberias and realized Jesus and the disciples weren’t there, they got into the boats and went to Capernaum to search for him." 
John6:25 When they finally found him, they asked him, “Teacher, how did you get here?”" 
John6:26 Jesus replied, “Let me make this very clear, you came looking for me because I fed you by a miracle, not because you believe in me." 
John6:27 Why would you strive for food that is perishable and not be passionate to seek the food of eternal life, which never spoils? I, the Son of Man, am ready to give you what matters most, for God the Father has destined me for this purpose.”" 
John6:28 They replied, “So what should we do if we want to do God’s work?”" 
John6:29 Jesus answered, “The work you can do for God starts with believing in the One he has sent.”" 
John6:30 They replied, “Show us a miracle so we can see it, and then we’ll believe in you. Moses took care of our ancestors who were fed by the miracle of manna every day in the desert, just like the Scripture says, ‘He fed them with bread from heaven.’ What sign will you perform for us?”" 
John6:31  
John6:32 “The truth is,” Jesus said, “Moses didn’t give you the bread of heaven. It’s my Father who offers bread that comes as a dramatic sign from heaven." 
John6:33 The bread of God is the One who came out of heaven to give his life to feed the world.” 
John6:34 “Then please, sir, give us this bread every day,” they replied." 
John6:35 Jesus said to them, “I am the Bread of Life. Come every day to me and you will never be hungry. Believe in me and you will never be thirsty." 
John6:36 Yet I’ve told you that even though you’ve seen me, you still don’t believe in me." 
John6:37 But everyone my Father has given to me, they will come. And all who come to me, I will embrace and will never turn them away." 
John6:38 And I have come out of heaven not for my own desires, but for the satisfaction of my Father who sent me." 
John6:39 My Father who sent me has determined that I will not lose even one of those he has given to me, and I will raise them up in the last day." 
John6:40 For the longing of my Father is that everyone who embraces the Son and believes in him will experience eternal life and I will raise them up in the last day!” 
John6:41 When the Jews who were hostile to Jesus heard him say, “I am the Bread that came down from heaven,” they immediately began to complain," 
John6:42 “How can he say these things about himself? We know him, and we know his parents. How dare he say, ‘I have come down from heaven?’ ”" 
John6:43 Jesus responded, “Stop your grumbling!" 
John6:44 The only way people come to me is by the Father who sent me—he pulls on their hearts to embrace me. And those who are drawn to me, I will certainly raise them up in the last day.”" 
John6:45 Jesus continued, “It has been written by the prophets, ‘They will all be taught by God himself.’ If you are really listening to the Father and learning directly from him, you will come to me." 
John6:46 For I am the only One who has come from the Father’s side, and I have seen the Father!" 
John6:47 “I speak to you living truth: Unite your heart to me and believe—and you will experience eternal life! 
John6:48 I am the true Bread of Life. 
John6:49 Your ancestors ate manna in the desert and died. 
John6:50 But standing here before you is the true Bread that comes out of heaven, and when you eat this Bread you will never die." 
John6:51 I alone am this living Bread that has come to you from heaven. Eat this Bread and you will live forever. The living Bread I give you is my body, which I will offer as a sacrifice so that all may live.”" 
John6:52 These words of Jesus sparked an angry outburst among the Jews. They protested, saying, “Does this man expect us to eat his body?”" 
John6:53 Jesus replied to them, “Listen to this eternal truth: Unless you eat the body of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you will not have eternal life." 
John6:54 Eternal life comes to the one who eats my body and drinks my blood, and I will raise him up in the last day." 
John6:55 For my body is real food for your spirit and my blood is real drink. 
John6:56 The one who eats my body and drinks my blood lives in me and I live in him. 
John6:57 The Father of life sent me, and he is my life. In the same way, the one who feeds upon me, I will become his life." 
John6:58 I am not like the bread your ancestors ate and later died. I am the living Bread that comes from heaven. Eat this Bread and you will live forever!” 
John6:59 Jesus preached this sermon in the synagogue in Capernaum. 
John6:60 And when many of Jesus’ followers heard these things, it caused a stir. “That’s disgusting!” they said. “How could anybody accept it?”" 
John6:61 Without anyone telling him, Jesus knew they were outraged and told them, “Are you offended over my teaching?" 
John6:62 What will you do when you see the Son of Man ascending into the realm from where he came? 
John6:63 “The Holy Spirit is the one who gives life, that which is of the natural realm is of no help. The words I speak to you are Spirit and life. But there are still some of you who won’t believe.”" 
John6:64 In fact, Jesus already knew from the beginning who the skeptics were and who his traitor would be." 
John6:65 He went on to say, “This is why I told you that no one embraces me unless the Father has given you to me.”" 
John6:66 And so from that time on many of the disciples turned their backs on Jesus and refused to be associated with him. 
John6:67 So Jesus said to his twelve, “And you—do you also want to leave?”" 
John6:68 Peter spoke up and said, “But Lord, where would we go? No one but you gives us the revelation of eternal life." 
John6:69 We’re fully convinced that you are the Anointed One, the Son of the Living God, and we believe in you!”" 
John6:70 Then Jesus shocked them with these words: “I have hand-picked you to be my twelve, knowing that one of you is the devil.”" 
John6:71 Jesus was referring to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, for he knew that Judas, one of his chosen disciples, was getting ready to betray him." 
John7:1 After this Jesus traveled extensively throughout the province of Galilee, but he avoided the province of Judea, for he knew the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem were plotting to have him killed." 
John7:1 After this Jesus traveled extensively throughout the province of Galilee, but he avoided the province of Judea, for he knew the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem were plotting to have him killed." 
John7:2 Now the annual Feast of Tabernacles was approaching. 
John7:3 So Jesus’ brothers came to advise him, saying, “Why don’t you leave the countryside villages and go to Judea where the crowds are, so that your followers can see your miracles?" 
John7:3 So Jesus’ brothers came to advise him, saying, “Why don’t you leave the countryside villages and go to Judea where the crowds are, so that your followers can see your miracles?" 
John7:4 No one can see what you’re doing here in the backwoods of Galilee. How do you expect to be successful and famous if you do all these things in secret? Now is your time—go to Jerusalem, come out of hiding, and show the world who you are!”" 
John7:5 His brothers were pushing him, even though they didn’t yet believe in him as the Savior." 
John7:6 Jesus responded, “My time of being unveiled hasn’t yet come, but any time is a suitable opportunity for you to gain man’s approval." 
John7:7 The world can’t hate you, but it does me, for I am exposing their evil deeds." 
John7:8 You can go ahead and celebrate the feast without me—my appointed time has not yet come.” 
John7:9 Jesus lingered in Galilee until his brothers had left for the feast in Jerusalem. Then later, Jesus took a back road and went into Jerusalem in secret." 
John7:10  
John7:11 During the feast, the Jewish leaders kept looking for Jesus and asking around, “Where is he? Have you seen him?”" 
John7:12 A controversy was brewing among the people, with so many differing opinions about Jesus. Some were saying, “He’s a good man!” While others weren’t convinced and insisted, saying, “He’s just a demagogue.”" 
John7:13 Yet no one was bold enough to speak out publicly on Jesus’ behalf for fear of the Jewish leaders. 
John7:14 Not until the feast was half over did Jesus finally appear in the temple courts and begin to teach. 
John7:15 The Jewish leaders were astonished by what he taught and said, “How did this man acquire such knowledge? He wasn’t trained in our schools—who taught him?”" 
John7:16 So Jesus responded, “I don’t teach my own ideas, but the truth revealed to me by the One who sent me." 
John7:17 If you want to test my teachings and discover where I received them, first be passionate to do God’s will, and then you will be able to discern if my teachings are from the heart of God or from my own opinions." 
John7:18 Charlatans praise themselves and seek honor from men, but my Father sent me to speak truth on his behalf. And I have no false motive, because I seek only the glory of God." 
John7:19 Moses has given you the law, but not one of you is faithful to keep it. So if you are all law-breakers, why then would you seek to kill me?”" 
John7:20 Then some in the crowd shouted out, “You must be out of your mind! Who’s trying to kill you?”" 
John7:21 Jesus replied, “I only had to do one miracle, and all of you marvel!" 
John7:22 Yet isn’t it true that Moses and your forefathers ordered you to circumcise your sons even if the eighth day fell on a Sabbath? 
John7:23 So if you cut away part of a man on the Sabbath and that doesn’t break the Jewish law, why then would you be indignant with me for making a man completely healed on the Sabbath?" 
John7:24 Stop judging based on the superficial. First you must embrace the standards of mercy and truth.” 
John7:25 Then some of the residents of Jerusalem spoke up and said, “Isn’t this the one they’re trying to kill?" 
John7:26 So why is he here speaking publicly and not one of the Jewish leaders is doing anything about it? Are they starting to think that he’s the Anointed One? 
John7:27 But how could he be, since we know this man is from Galilee, but no one will know where the true Messiah comes from, he’ll just appear out of nowhere.”" 
John7:28 Knowing all of this, Jesus one day preached boldly in the temple courts, “So, you think you know me and where I come from? But you don’t know the One who sent me—the Father who is always faithful. I have not come simply on my own initiative." 
John7:29 The Father has sent me here, and I know all about him, for I have come from his presence.”" 
John7:30 His words caused many to want to arrest him, but no man was able to lay a hand on him, for it wasn’t yet his appointed time." 
John7:31 And there were many people who thought he might be the Messiah. They said, “After all, when the Anointed One appears, could he possibly do more signs and wonders than this man has done?”" 
John7:32 So when the Pharisees heard these rumors circulating about Jesus, they went with the leading priests and the temple guards to arrest him." 
John7:33 Then Jesus said, “My days to be with you are numbered. Then I will return to the One who sent me." 
John7:34 And you will search for me and not be able to find me. For where I am, you cannot come.”" 
John7:35 When the Jewish leaders heard this, they discussed among themselves, “Where could he possibly go that we won’t be able to find him? Is he going to minister in a different land where our people live scattered among the nations? Is he going to teach those who are not Jews?" 
John7:36 What did he really mean by his statement, ‘You will search for me and won’t be able to find me. And where I am you can’t come’?”" 
John7:37 Then on the most important day of the feast, the last day, Jesus stood and shouted out to the crowds— “All you thirsty ones, come to me! Come to me and drink!" 
John7:38 Believe in me so that rivers of living water will burst out from within you, flowing from your innermost being, just like the Scripture says!”" 
John7:39 Jesus was prophesying about the Holy Spirit that believers were being prepared to receive. But the Holy Spirit had not yet been poured out upon them, because Jesus had not yet been unveiled in his full splendor." 
John7:40 When the crowd heard Jesus’ words, some said, “This man really is a prophet!”" 
John7:41 Others said, “He’s the Messiah!” But others said, “How could he be the Anointed One since he’s from Galilee?" 
John7:42 Don’t the Scriptures say that he will be one of David’s descendants and be born in Bethlehem, the city of David?”" 
John7:43 So the crowd was divided over Jesus," 
John7:44 some wanted him arrested but no one dared to lay a hand on him. 
John7:45 So when the temple guards returned to the Pharisees and the leading priests without Jesus, they were questioned, “Where is he? Why didn’t you bring that man back with you?”" 
John7:46 They answered, “You don’t understand—he speaks amazing things like no one else has ever spoken!”" 
John7:47 The religious leaders mocked, “Oh, so now you also have been led astray by him?" 
John7:48 Do you see even one of us, your leaders, following him?" 
John7:49 This ignorant rabble swarms around him because none of them know anything about the Law! They’re all cursed!” 
John7:50 Just then, Nicodemus, who had secretly spent time with Jesus, spoke up, for he was a respected voice among them." 
John7:51 He cautioned them, saying, “Does our law decide a man’s guilt before we first hear him and allow him to defend himself?”" 
John7:52 They argued, “Oh, so now you’re an advocate for this Galilean! Search the Scriptures, Nicodemus, and you’ll see that there’s no mention of a prophet coming out of Galilee!” So with that their debate ended," 
John7:53 and they each went their own way. 
John8:1 Jesus walked up the Mount of Olives near the city where he spent the night. 
John8:2 Then at dawn Jesus appeared in the temple courts again, and soon all the people gathered around to listen to his words, so he sat down and taught them." 
John8:3 Then in the middle of his teaching, the religious scholars and the Pharisees broke through the crowd and brought a woman who had been caught in the act of committing adultery and made her stand in the middle of everyone." 
John8:4 Then they said to Jesus, “Teacher, we caught this woman in the very act of adultery." 
John8:5 Doesn’t Moses’ law command us to stone to death a woman like this? Tell us, what do you say we should do with her?”" 
John8:6 They were only testing Jesus because they hoped to trap him with his own words and accuse him of breaking the laws of Moses. But Jesus didn’t answer them. Instead he simply bent down and wrote in the dust with his finger. 
John8:7 Angry, they kept insisting that he answer their question, so Jesus stood up and looked at them and said, “Let’s have the man who has never had a sinful desire throw the first stone at her.”" 
John8:8 And then he bent over again and wrote some more words in the dust. 
John8:9 Upon hearing that, her accusers slowly left the crowd one at a time, beginning with the oldest to the youngest, with a convicted conscience." 
John8:10 Until finally, Jesus was left alone with the woman still standing there in front of him. So he stood back up and said to her, “Dear woman, where are your accusers? Is there no one here to condemn you?”" 
John8:11 Looking around, she replied, “I see no one, Lord.” Jesus said, “Then I certainly don’t condemn you either. Go, and from now on, be free from a life of sin.”" 
John8:12 Then Jesus said, “I am light to the world, and those who embrace me will experience life-giving light, and they will never walk in darkness.”" 
John8:13 The Pharisees were immediately offended and said, “You’re just boasting about yourself! Since we only have your word on this, it makes your testimony invalid!”" 
John8:14 Jesus responded, “Just because I am the one making these claims doesn’t mean they’re invalid. For I absolutely know who I am, where I’ve come from, and where I’m going. But you Pharisees have no idea about what I’m saying." 
John8:15 For you’ve set yourselves up as judges of others based on outward appearances, but I certainly never judge others in that way." 
John8:16 For I discern the truth. And I am not alone in my judgments, for my Father and I have the same understanding in all things, and he has sent me to you." 
John8:17 “Isn’t it written in the law of Moses that the testimony of two men is trustworthy? 
John8:18 Then what I say about who I am is true, for I am not alone in my testimony—my Father is the other witness, and we testify together of the truth.”" 
John8:19 Then they asked, “Just who is this ‘Father’ of yours? Where is he?” Jesus answered, “You wouldn’t ask that question if you knew who I am, or my Father. For if you knew me, you would recognize my Father too.”" 
John8:20 (Jesus taught all these things while standing in the treasure room of the temple. And no one dared to arrest him, for it wasn’t yet his time to surrender to men.)" 
John8:21 One day Jesus said again, “I am about to leave you. You will want to find me, but you will still die in your sins. You won’t be able to come where I am going.”" 
John8:22 This so confused the Jewish leaders that they began to say, “Is he planning to commit suicide? What’s he talking about—‘You won’t be able to come where I am going’?”" 
John8:23 Jesus spoke up and said, “You are all from the earth; I am from above. I am not from this world like you are." 
John8:24 That’s why I’ve told you that you will all die in your sins if you fail to believe that I AM who I AM.” 
John8:25 So they asked him plainly, “Who are you?” “I am the One I’ve always claimed to be.” Jesus replied." 
John8:26 “And I still have many more things to pronounce in judgment about you. For I will testify to the world of the truths that I have heard from my Father, and the Father who sent me is trustworthy.”" 
John8:27 (Even after all of this, they still didn’t realize that he was speaking about his heavenly Father.)" 
John8:28 “You will know me as ‘I AM’ after you have lifted me up from the earth as the Son of Man. Then you will realize that I do nothing on my own initiative, but I only speak the truth that the Father has revealed to me." 
John8:29 I am his messenger and he is always with me, for I only do that which delights his heart.”" 
John8:30 These words caused many respected Jews to believe in him. 
John8:31 Jesus said to those Jews who believed in him, “When you continue to embrace all that I teach, you prove that you are my true followers." 
John8:32 For if you embrace the truth, it will release true freedom into your lives.”" 
John8:33 Surprised by this, they said, “But we’re the descendants of Abraham and we’re already free. We’ve never been in bondage to anyone. How could you say that we will be released into more freedom?”" 
John8:34 “I speak eternal truth,” Jesus said. “When you sin you are not free. You’ve become a slave in bondage to your sin." 
John8:35 And slaves have no permanent standing in a family, like a son does, for a son is a part of the family forever." 
John8:36 So if the Son sets you free from sin, then become a true son and be unquestionably free!" 
John8:37 Even though you are descendants of Abraham, you desire to kill me because the message I bring has not found a home in your hearts." 
John8:38 Yet the truths I speak I’ve seen and received in my Father’s presence. But you are doing what you’ve learned from your father!” 
John8:39 “What do you mean?” they replied. “Abraham is our father!” Jesus said, “If you are really Abraham’s sons, then you would follow in the steps of Abraham." 
John8:40 I’ve only told you the truth that I’ve heard in my Father’s presence, but now you are wanting me dead—is that how Abraham acted?" 
John8:41 No, you people are doing what your father has taught you!” Indignant, they responded, “What are you talking about? We only have one Father, God himself! We’re not illegitimate!”" 
John8:42 Jesus said, “Then if God were really your father, you would love me, for I’ve come from his presence. I didn’t come here on my own, but God sent me to you." 
John8:43 Why don’t you understand what I say? You don’t understand because your hearts are closed to my message! 
John8:44 “You are the offspring of your father, the devil, and you serve your father very well, passionately carrying out his desires. He’s been a murderer right from the start! He never stood with the truth, for he’s full of nothing but lies—lying is his native tongue. He is a master of deception and the father of lies!" 
John8:45 But I am the true Prince who speaks nothing but the truth, yet you refuse to believe and you want nothing to do with me." 
John8:46 Can you name one sin that I’ve committed? Then if I am telling you only the truth, why don’t you believe me?" 
John8:47 If you really knew God, you would listen, receive, and respond with faith to his words. But since you don’t listen and respond to what he says, it proves you don’t belong to him and you have no room for him in your hearts.”" 
John8:48 “See! We were right all along!” some of the Jewish leaders shouted. “You’re nothing but a demon-possessed Samaritan!” 
John8:49 Jesus replied, “It is not a demon that would cause me to honor my Father. I live my life for his honor, even though you insult me for it." 
John8:50 I never have a need to seek my own glory, for the Father will do that for me, and he will judge those who do not." 
John8:51 I speak to you this eternal truth: whoever cherishes my words and keeps them will never experience death.” 
John8:52 This prompted the Jewish leaders to say, “Now we know for sure that you’re demon possessed! You just said that those who keep watch over your words will never experience death, but Abraham and all the prophets have died!" 
John8:53 Do you think you’re greater than our father Abraham and all the prophets? You are so delusional about yourself that you make yourself greater than you are!” 
John8:54 Jesus answered them, “If I were to tell you how great I am, it would mean nothing. But my Father is the One who will prove it and will glorify me. Isn’t he the One you claim is your God?" 
John8:55 But in reality, you’ve never embraced him as your own. I know him, and I would be a liar, like yourselves, if I told you anything less than that. I have fully embraced him, and I treasure his every word." 
John8:56 And not only that, Abraham, your ancestor, was overjoyed when he received the revelation of my coming to earth. Yes, he foresaw me coming and was filled with delight!”" 
John8:57 But many of the Jewish leaders doubted him and said, “What are you talking about? You’re not even fifty years old yet. You talk like you’ve seen Abraham!”" 
John8:58 Jesus said to them, “I give you this eternal truth: I have existed long before Abraham was born, for I AM!”" 
John8:59 When they heard this, they picked up rocks to stone him, but Jesus concealed himself as he passed through the crowd and went away from there." 
John9:1 Afterward, as Jesus walked down the street, he noticed a man blind from birth." 
John9:2 His disciples asked him, “Teacher, whose sin caused this guy’s blindness, his own, or the sin of his parents?”" 
John9:3 Jesus answered, “Neither. It happened to him so that you could watch him experience God’s miracle." 
John9:4 While I am with you, it is daytime and we must do the works of God who sent me while the light shines. For there is coming a dark night when no one will be able to work." 
John9:5 As long as I am with you my life is the light that pierces the world’s darkness.” 
John9:6 Then Jesus spat on the ground and made some clay with his saliva. Then he anointed the blind man’s eyes with the clay. 
John9:7 And he said to the blind man, “Now go and wash the clay from your eyes in the ritual pool of Siloam.” So he went and washed his face and as he came back, he could see for the first time in his life!" 
John9:8 This caused quite a stir among the people of the neighborhood, for they noticed the blind beggar was now seeing! They began to say to one another, “Isn’t this the blind man who once sat and begged?”" 
John9:9 Some said, “No, it can’t be him!” Others said, “But it looks just like him—it has to be him!” All the while the man kept insisting, “I’m the man who was blind!”" 
John9:10 Finally, they asked him, “What has happened to you?”" 
John9:11 He replied, “I met the man named Jesus! He rubbed clay on my eyes and said, ‘Go to the pool named Siloam and wash.’ So I went and while I was washing the clay from my eyes I began to see for the very first time ever!”" 
John9:12 So the people of the neighborhood inquired, “Where is this man?” “I have no idea.” the man replied." 
John9:13 So the people marched him over to the Pharisees to speak with them. 
John9:14 They were concerned because the miracle Jesus performed by making clay with his saliva and anointing the man’s eyes happened on a Sabbath day, a day that no one was allowed to “work.”" 
John9:15 Then the Pharisees asked the man, “How did you have your sight restored?” He replied, “A man anointed my eyes with clay, then I washed, and now I can see for the first time in my life!”" 
John9:16 Then an argument broke out among the Pharisees over the healing of the blind man on the Sabbath. Some said, “This man who performed this healing is clearly not from God! He doesn’t even observe the Sabbath!” Others said, “If Jesus is just an ordinary sinner, how could he perform a miracle like that?”" 
John9:17 This prompted them to turn on the man healed of blindness, putting him on the spot in front of them all, demanding an answer. They asked, “Who do you say he is—this man who opened your blind eyes?” “He’s a prophet of God!” the man replied." 
John9:18 Still refusing to believe that the man had been healed and was truly blind from birth, the Jewish leaders called for the man’s parents to be brought to them." 
John9:19 So they asked his parents, “Is this your son?” “Yes,” they answered. “Was he really born blind?” “Yes, he was,” they replied. So they pressed his parents to answer, “Then how is it that he’s now seeing?”" 
John9:20  
John9:21 “We have no idea,” they answered. “We don’t know what happened to our son. Ask him, he’s a mature adult. He can speak for himself.”" 
John9:22 (Now the parents were obviously intimidated by the Jewish religious leaders, for they had already announced to the people that if anyone publicly confessed Jesus as the Messiah, they would be excommunicated." 
John9:23 That’s why they told them, “Ask him, he’s a mature adult. He can speak for himself.”)" 
John9:24 So once again they summoned the man who was healed of blindness and said to him, “Swear to God to tell us the truth! We know the man who healed you is a sinful man! Do you agree?”" 
John9:25 The healed man replied, “I have no idea what kind of man he is. All I know is that I was blind and now I can see for the first time in my life!”" 
John9:26 “But what did he do to you?” they asked. “How did he heal you?” 
John9:27 The man responded, “I told you once and you didn’t listen to me. Why do you make me repeat it? Are you wanting to be his followers too?”" 
John9:28 This angered the Jewish leaders. They heaped insults on him, “We can tell you are one of his followers—now we know it! We are true followers of Moses," 
John9:29 for we know that God spoke to Moses directly. But as for this one, we don’t know where he’s coming from!”" 
John9:30 “Well, what a surprise this is!” the man said. “You don’t even know where he comes from, but he healed my eyes and now I can see!" 
John9:31 We know that God doesn’t listen to sinners, but only to godly people who do his will." 
John9:32 Yet who has ever heard of a man born blind that was healed and given his eyesight for the very first time? 
John9:33 I tell you, if this man isn’t from God, he wouldn’t be able to heal me like he has!”" 
John9:34 Some of the Jewish leaders were enraged and said, “Just who do you think you are to lecture us! You were born a blind, filthy sinner!” So they threw the man out in the street." 
John9:35 When Jesus learned they had thrown him out, he went to find him and said to him, “Do you believe in the Son of God?”" 
John9:36 The man whose blind eyes were healed answered, “Who is he, Master? Tell me so that I can place all my faith in him.”" 
John9:37 Jesus replied, “You’re looking right at him. He’s speaking with you. It’s me, the one in front of you now.”" 
John9:38 Then the man threw himself at his feet and worshiped Jesus and said, “Lord, I believe in you!”" 
John9:39 And Jesus said, “I have come to judge those who think they see and make them blind. And for those who are blind, I have come to make them see.”" 
John9:40 Some of the Pharisees were standing nearby and overheard these words. They interrupted Jesus and said, “You mean to tell us that we are blind?”" 
John9:41 Jesus told them, “If you would acknowledge your blindness, then your sin would be removed. But now that you claim to see, your sin remains with you!”" 
John10:1 Jesus said to the Pharisees, “Listen to this eternal truth: The person who sneaks over the wall to enter into the sheep pen, rather than coming through the gate, reveals himself as a thief coming to steal." 
John10:2 But the true Shepherd walks right up to the gate," 
John10:3 and because the gatekeeper knows who he is, he opens the gate to let him in. And the sheep recognize the voice of the true Shepherd, for he calls his own by name and leads them out, for they belong to him." 
John10:4 And when he has brought out all his sheep, he walks ahead of them and they will follow him, for they are familiar with his voice." 
John10:5 But they will run away from strangers and never follow them because they know it’s the voice of a stranger.” 
John10:6 Jesus told the Pharisees this parable even though they didn’t understand a word of what he meant. 
John10:7 So Jesus went over it again, “I speak to you eternal truth: I am the Gate for the flock." 
John10:8 All those who broke in before me are thieves who came to steal, but the sheep never listened to them." 
John10:9 I am the Gateway. To enter through me is to experience life, freedom, and satisfaction." 
John10:10 A thief has only one thing in mind—he wants to steal, slaughter, and destroy. But I have come to give you everything in abundance, more than you expect —life in its fullness until you overflow!" 
John10:11 I am the Good Shepherd who lays down my life as a sacrifice for the sheep. 
John10:12 But the worker who serves only for wages is not a real shepherd. Because he has no heart for the sheep he will run away and abandon them when he sees the wolf coming. And then the wolf mauls the sheep, drags them off, and scatters them." 
John10:13  
John10:14 “I alone am the Good Shepherd, and I know those whose hearts are mine, for they recognize me and know me," 
John10:15 just as my Father knows my heart and I know my Father’s heart. I am ready to give my life for the sheep. 
John10:16 “And I have other sheep that I will gather which are not of this Jewish flock. And I, their shepherd, must lead them too, and they will follow me and listen to my voice. And I will join them all into one flock with one shepherd." 
John10:17 “The Father has an intense love for me because I freely give my own life—to raise it up again. 
John10:18 I surrender my own life, and no one has the power to take my life from me. I have the authority to lay it down and the power to take it back again. This is the destiny my Father has set before me.”" 
John10:19 This teaching set off another heated controversy among the Jewish leaders. 
John10:20 Many of them said, “This man is a demon-possessed lunatic! Why would anyone listen to a word he says?”" 
John10:21 But then there were others who weren’t so sure: “His teaching is full of insight. These are not the ravings of a madman! How could a demonized man give sight to one born blind?” 
John10:22 The time came to observe the winter Feast of Renewal in Jerusalem. Jesus walked into the temple area under Solomon’s covered walkway 
John10:23  
John10:24 when the Jewish leaders encircled him and said, “How much longer will you keep us in suspense? Tell us the truth and clarify this for us once and for all. Are you really the Messiah, the Anointed One?”" 
John10:25 Jesus answered them, “I have told you the truth already and you did not believe me. The proof of who I am is revealed by all the miracles that I do in the name of my Father." 
John10:26 Yet, you stubbornly refuse to follow me, because you are not my sheep. As I’ve told you before:" 
John10:27 My own sheep will hear my voice and I know each one, and they will follow me." 
John10:28 I give to them the gift of eternal life and they will never be lost and no one has the power to snatch them out of my hands. 
John10:29 My Father, who has given them to me as his gift, is the mightiest of all, and no one has the power to snatch them from my Father’s care." 
John10:30 The Father and I are one.” 
John10:31 When they heard this, the Jewish leaders were so enraged that they picked up rocks to stone him to death." 
John10:32 But Jesus said, “My Father has empowered me to work many miracles and acts of mercy among you. So which one of them do you want to stone me for?”" 
John10:33 The Jewish leaders responded, “We’re not stoning you for anything good you did—it’s because of your blasphemy! You’re just a son of Adam, but you’ve claimed to be God!”" 
John10:34 Jesus answered, “Isn’t it written in your Scriptures that God said, ‘You are gods?’ The Scriptures cannot be denied or found to be in error." 
John10:35 So if those who have the message of the Scriptures are said to be ‘gods,’ then why would you accuse me of blasphemy?" 
John10:36 For I have been uniquely chosen by God and he is the one who sent me to you. How then could it be blasphemy for me to say, ‘I am the Son of God!’" 
John10:37 If I’m not doing the beautiful works that my Father sent me to do, then don’t believe me." 
John10:38 But if you see me doing the beautiful works of God upon the earth, then you should at least believe the evidence of the miracles, even if you don’t believe my words! Then you would come to experience me and be convinced that I am in the Father and the Father is in me.”" 
John10:39 Once again they attempted to seize him, but he escaped miraculously from their clutches." 
John10:40 Then Jesus went back to the place where John had baptized him at the crossing of the Jordan. 
John10:41 Many came out to where he was and said about him, “Even though John didn’t perform any miracles, everything he predicted about this man is true!”" 
John10:42 And many people became followers of Jesus at the Jordan and believed in him. 
John11:1 In the village of Bethany there was a man named Lazarus, and his sisters, Mary and Martha. Mary was the one who would anoint Jesus’ feet with costly perfume and dry his feet with her long hair. One day Lazarus became very sick to the point of death." 
John11:2  
John11:3 So his sisters sent a message to Jesus, “Lord, our brother Lazarus, the one you love, is very sick. Please come!”" 
John11:4 When he heard this, he said, “This sickness will not end in death for Lazarus, but will bring glory and praise to God. This will reveal the greatness of the Son of God by what takes place.”" 
John11:5 Now even though Jesus loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, he remained where he was for two more days." 
John11:6  
John11:7 Finally, on the third day, he said to his disciples, “Come. It’s time to go to Bethany.”" 
John11:8 “But Teacher,” they said to him, “do you really want to go back there? It was just a short time ago the people of Judea were going to stone you!”" 
John11:8 “But Teacher,” they said to him, “do you really want to go back there? It was just a short time ago the people of Judea were going to stone you!”" 
John11:9 Jesus replied, “Are there not twelve hours of daylight in every day? You can go through a day without the fear of stumbling when you walk in the One who gives light to the world. But you will stumble when the light is not in you, for you’ll be walking in the dark.”" 
John11:10  
John11:11 Then Jesus added, “Lazarus, our friend, has just fallen asleep. It’s time that I go and awaken him.”" 
John11:12 When they heard this, the disciples replied, “Lord, if he has just fallen asleep, then he’ll get better.”" 
John11:13 Jesus was speaking about Lazarus’ death, but the disciples presumed he was talking about natural sleep." 
John11:14 Then Jesus made it plain to them, “Lazarus is dead." 
John11:15 And for your sake, I’m glad I wasn’t there, because now you have another opportunity to see who I am so that you will learn to trust in me. Come, let’s go and see him.”" 
John11:16 So Thomas, nicknamed the Twin, remarked to the other disciples, “Let’s go so that we can die with him.”" 
John11:17 Now when they arrived at Bethany, which was only about two miles from Jerusalem, Jesus found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days." 
John11:18  
John11:19 Many friends of Mary and Martha had come from the region to console them over the loss of their brother. 
John11:20 And when Martha heard that Jesus was approaching the village, she went out to meet him, but Mary stayed in the house." 
John11:21 Martha said to Jesus, “My Lord, if only you had come sooner, my brother wouldn’t have died." 
John11:22 But I know that if you were to ask God for anything, he would do it for you.”" 
John11:23 Jesus told her, “Your brother will rise and live.”" 
John11:24 She replied, “Yes, I know he will rise with everyone else on resurrection day.”" 
John11:25 “Martha,” Jesus said, “ You don’t have to wait until then. I am the Resurrection, and I am Life Eternal. Anyone who clings to me in faith, even though he dies, will live forever." 
John11:26 And the one who lives by believing in me will never die. Do you believe this?” 
John11:27 Then Martha replied, “Yes, Lord, I do! I’ve always believed that you are the Anointed One, the Son of God who has come into the world for us!”" 
John11:28 Then she left and hurried off to her sister, Mary, and called her aside from all the mourners and whispered to her, “The Master is here and he’s asking for you.”" 
John11:29 So when Mary heard this, she quickly went off to find him," 
John11:30 for Jesus was lingering outside the village at the same spot where Martha met him. 
John11:31 Now when Mary’s friends who were comforting her noticed how quickly she ran out of the house, they followed her, assuming she was going to the tomb of her brother to mourn." 
John11:32 When Mary finally found Jesus outside the village, she fell at his feet in tears and said, “Lord, if only you had been here, my brother would not have died.”" 
John11:33 When Jesus looked at Mary and saw her weeping at his feet, and all her friends who were with her grieving, he shuddered with emotion and was deeply moved with tenderness and compassion." 
John11:34 He said to them, “Where did you bury him?” “Lord, come with us and we’ll show you,” they replied." 
John11:35 Then tears streamed down Jesus’ face. 
John11:36 Seeing Jesus weep caused many of the mourners to say, “Look how much he loved Lazarus.”" 
John11:37 Yet others said, “Isn’t this the One who opens blind eyes? Why didn’t he do something to keep Lazarus from dying?”" 
John11:38 Then Jesus, with intense emotions, came to the tomb—a cave with a stone placed over its entrance." 
John11:39 Jesus told them, “Roll away the stone.” Then Martha said, “But Lord, it’s been four days since he died—by now his body is already decomposing!”" 
John11:40 Jesus looked at her and said, “Didn’t I tell you that if you will believe in me, you will see God unveil his power?”" 
John11:41 So they rolled away the heavy stone. Jesus gazed into heaven and said, “Father, thank you that you have heard my prayer," 
John11:42 for you listen to every word I speak. Now, so that these who stand here with me will believe that you have sent me to the earth as your messenger, I will use the power you have given me. ”" 
John11:43 Then with a loud voice Jesus shouted with authority: “Lazarus! Come out of the tomb!” 
John11:44 Then in front of everyone, Lazarus, who had died four days earlier, slowly hobbled out—he still had grave clothes tightly wrapped around his hands and feet and covering his face! Jesus said to them, “Unwrap him and let him loose.”" 
John11:45 From that day forward many of those who had come to visit Mary believed in him, for they had seen with their own eyes this amazing miracle!" 
John11:46 But a few went back to inform the Pharisees about what Jesus had done. 
John11:47 So the Pharisees and the chief priests called a special meeting of the High Council and said, “So what are we going to do about this man? Look at all the great miracles he’s performing!" 
John11:48 If we allow him to continue like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will take action and destroy both our country and our people!”" 
John11:48 If we allow him to continue like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will take action and destroy both our country and our people!”" 
John11:49 Now Caiaphas, the high priest that year, spoke up and said, “You don’t understand a thing!" 
John11:50 Don’t you realize we’d be much better off if this one man were to die for the people than for the whole nation to perish?” 
John11:51 (This prophecy that Jesus was destined to die for the Jewish people didn’t come from Caiaphas himself, but he was moved by God to prophesy as the chief priest." 
John11:52 And Jesus’ death would not be for the Jewish people only, but to gather together God’s children scattered around the world and unite them as one.)" 
John11:53 So from that day on, they were committed to killing Jesus." 
John11:54 For this reason Jesus no longer went out in public among the Jews. But he went in the wilderness to a village called Ephraim, where he secluded himself with his disciples." 
John11:55 Now the time came for the Passover preparations, and many from the countryside went to Jerusalem for their ceremonial cleansing before the feast began." 
John11:56 And all the people kept looking out for Jesus, expecting him to come to the city. They said to themselves while they waited in the temple courts, “Do you think that he will dare come to the feast?”" 
John11:57 For the leading priests and the Pharisees had given orders that they be informed immediately if anyone saw Jesus, so they could seize and arrest him." 
John12:1 Six days before the Passover began, Jesus went back to Bethany, the town where he raised Lazarus from the dead." 
John12:2 They had prepared a supper for Jesus. Martha served, and Lazarus and Mary were among those at the table." 
John12:3 Mary picked up an alabaster jar filled with nearly a liter of extremely rare and costly perfume—the purest extract of nard, and she anointed Jesus’ feet. Then she wiped them dry with her long hair. And the fragrance of the costly oil filled the house." 
John12:4 But Judas the locksmith, Simon’s son, the betrayer, spoke up and said," 
John12:5 “What a waste! We could have sold this perfume for a fortune and given the money to the poor!” 
John12:6 (In fact, Judas had no heart for the poor. He only said this because he was a thief and in charge of the money case. He would steal money whenever he wanted from the funds given to support Jesus’ ministry.)" 
John12:7 Jesus said to Judas, “Leave her alone! She has saved it for the time of my burial." 
John12:8 You’ll always have the poor with you; but you won’t always have me.” 
John12:9 When the word got out that Jesus was not far from Jerusalem, a large crowd came out to see him, and they also wanted to see Lazarus, the man Jesus had raised from the dead." 
John12:10 This prompted the chief priests to seal their plans to do away with both Jesus and Lazarus," 
John12:11 for his miracle testimony was irrefutable and was persuading many of the Jews living in Jerusalem to believe in Jesus. 
John12:12 The next day the news that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem swept through the massive crowd gathered for the feast. 
John12:13 So they took palm branches and went out to meet him. Everyone was shouting, “Lord, be our Savior! Blessed is the one who comes to us sent from Yahweh, the King of Israel!”" 
John12:14 Then Jesus found a young donkey and rode on it to fulfill what was prophesied: 
John12:15 “People of Zion, have no fear! Look—it’s your king coming to you riding on a young donkey!”" 
John12:16 Now Jesus’ disciples didn’t fully understand the importance of what was taking place, but after he was raised and exalted into glory, they understood how Jesus fulfilled all the prophecies in the Scriptures that were written about him." 
John12:17 All the eyewitnesses of the miracle Jesus performed when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead kept spreading the news about Jesus to everyone. 
John12:18 The news of this miracle of resurrection caused the crowds to swell as great numbers of people welcomed him into the city with joy. 
John12:19 But the Pharisees were disturbed by this and said to each other, “We won’t be able to stop this. The whole world is going to run after him!”" 
John12:20 Now there were a number of foreigners from among the nations who were worshipers at the feast. 
John12:21 They went to Philip (who came from the village of Bethsaida in Galilee) and they asked him, “Would you take us to see Jesus? We want to see him.”" 
John12:22 So Philip went to find Andrew, and then they both went to inform Jesus." 
John12:23 He replied to them, “Now is the time for the Son of Man to be glorified." 
John12:24 Let me make this clear: A single grain of wheat will never be more than a single grain of wheat unless it drops into the ground and dies. Because then it sprouts and produces a great harvest of wheat—all because one grain died. 
John12:25 “The person who loves his life and pampers himself will miss true life! But the one who detaches his life from this world and abandons himself to me, will find true life and enjoy it forever!" 
John12:26 If you want to be my disciple, follow me and you will go where I am going. And if you truly follow me as my disciple, the Father will shower his favor upon your life." 
John12:27 “Even though I am torn within, and my soul is in turmoil, I will not ask the Father to rescue me from this hour of trial. For I have come to fulfill my purpose — to offer myself to God." 
John12:28 So, Father, bring glory to your name!” Then suddenly a booming voice was heard from the sky, “I have glorified my name! And I will glorify it through you again!”" 
John12:29 The audible voice of God startled the crowd standing nearby. Some thought it was only thunder, yet others said, “An angel just spoke to him!”" 
John12:30 Then Jesus told them, “The voice you heard was not for my benefit, but for yours— to help you believe." 
John12:31 From this moment on, everything in this world is about to change, for the ruler of this dark world will be overthrown." 
John12:32 And I will do this when I am lifted up off the ground and when I draw the hearts of people to gather them to me.” 
John12:33 He said this to indicate that he would die by being lifted up on the cross. 
John12:34 People from the crowd spoke up and said, “Die? How could the Anointed One die? The Word of God says that the Anointed One will live with us forever, but you just said that the Son of Man must be lifted up from the earth. And who is this Son of Man anyway?”" 
John12:35 Jesus replied, “You will have the light shining with you for only a little while longer. While you still have me, walk in the light, so that the darkness doesn’t overtake you. For when you walk in the dark you have no idea where you’re going." 
John12:36 So believe and cling to the light while I am with you, so that you will become children of light.” After saying this, Jesus then entered into the crowd and hid himself from them." 
John12:37 Even with the overwhelming evidence of all the many signs and wonders that Jesus had performed in front of them, his critics still refused to believe." 
John12:38 This fulfilled the prophecy given by Isaiah: Lord, who has believed our message? Who has seen the unveiling of your great power?" 
John12:39 And the people were not able to believe, for Isaiah also prophesied:" 
John12:40 God has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts to the truth. So with their eyes and hearts closed they cannot understand the truth nor turn to me so that I could instantly cleanse and heal them. 
John12:41 Isaiah said these things because he had seen and experienced the splendor of Jesus and prophesied about him. 
John12:42 Yet there were many Jewish leaders who believed in Jesus, but because they feared the Pharisees they kept it secret, so they wouldn’t be ostracized by the assembly of the Jews." 
John12:43 For they loved the glory that men could give them rather than the glory that came from God! 
John12:44 Jesus shouted out passionately, “To believe in me is to also believe in God who sent me." 
John12:45 For when you look at me you are seeing the One who sent me. 
John12:46 I have come as a light to shine in this dark world so that all who trust in me will no longer wander in darkness. 
John12:47 If you hear my words and refuse to follow them, I do not judge you. For I have not come to judge you but to save you." 
John12:48 If you reject me and refuse to follow my words, you already have a judge. The message of truth I have given you will rise up to judge you at the Day of Judgment." 
John12:49 For I’m not speaking as someone who is self-appointed, but I speak by the authority of the Father himself who sent me, and who instructed me what to say." 
John12:50 And I know that the Father’s commands result in eternal life, and that’s why I speak the very words I’ve heard him speak.”" 
John13:1 Jesus knew that the night before Passover would be his last night on earth before leaving this world to return to the Father’s side. All throughout his time with his disciples, Jesus had demonstrated a deep and tender love for them. And now he longed to show them the full measure of his love." 
John13:2 Before their evening meal had begun, the accuser had already deeply embedded betrayal into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon." 
John13:3 Now Jesus was fully aware that the Father had placed all things under his control, for he had come from God and was about to go back to be with him." 
John13:4 So he got up from the meal and took off his outer robe, and took a towel and wrapped it around his waist." 
John13:5 Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ dirty feet and dry them with his towel. 
John13:6 But when Jesus got to Simon Peter, he objected and said, “I can’t let you wash my dirty feet—you’re my Lord!”" 
John13:7 Jesus replied, “You don’t understand yet the meaning of what I’m doing, but soon it will be clear to you.”" 
John13:8 Peter looked at Jesus and said, “You’ll never wash my dirty feet—never!” “But Peter, if you don’t allow me to wash your feet,” Jesus responded, “then you will not be able to share life with me.”" 
John13:9 So Peter said, “Lord, in that case, don’t just wash my feet, wash my hands and my head too!”" 
John13:10 Jesus said to him, “You are already clean. You’ve been washed completely and you just need your feet to be cleansed—but that can’t be said of all of you.” For Jesus knew which one was about to betray him," 
John13:11 and that’s why he told them that not all of them were clean. 
John13:12 After washing their feet, he put his robe on and returned to his place at the table. “Do you understand what I just did?” Jesus said." 
John13:13 “You’ve called me your teacher and lord, and you’re right, for that’s who I am." 
John13:14 So if I’m your teacher and lord and have just washed your dirty feet, then you should follow the example that I’ve set for you and wash one another’s dirty feet. Now do for each other what I have just done for you." 
John13:15  
John13:16 I speak to you timeless truth: a servant is not superior to his master, and an apostle is never greater than the one who sent him." 
John13:17 So now put into practice what I have done for you, and you will experience a life of happiness enriched with untold blessings!”" 
John13:18 “I don’t refer to all of you when I tell you these things, for I know the ones I’ve chosen—to fulfill the Scripture that says, ‘The one who shared supper with me treacherously betrays me.’" 
John13:19 I am telling you this now, before it happens, so that when the prophecy comes to pass you will be convinced that I AM." 
John13:20 “Listen to this timeless truth: whoever receives the messenger I send receives me, and the one who receives me receives the Father who sent me.”" 
John13:21 Then Jesus was moved deeply in his spirit. Looking at his disciples, he announced, “I tell you the truth—one of you is about to betray me.”" 
John13:22 Eyeing each other, his disciples puzzled over which one of them could do such a thing." 
John13:23 The disciple that Jesus dearly loved was at the right of him at the table and was leaning his head on Jesus. 
John13:24 Peter gestured to this disciple to ask Jesus who it was he was referring to. 
John13:25 Then the dearly loved disciple leaned into Jesus’ chest and whispered, “Master, who is it?”" 
John13:26 “The one I give this piece of bread to after I’ve dipped it in the bowl,” Jesus replied. Then he dipped the piece of bread into the bowl and handed it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon." 
John13:27 And when Judas ate the piece of bread, Satan entered him. Then Jesus looked at Judas and said, “What you are planning to do, go do it now.”" 
John13:28 None of those around the table realized what was happening. 
John13:29 Some thought that Judas, their trusted treasurer, was being told to go buy what was needed for the Passover celebration, or perhaps to go give something to the poor." 
John13:30 So Judas left quickly and went out into the dark night to betray Jesus. 
John13:31 After Judas left the room, Jesus said, “The time has come for the glory of God to surround the Son of Man, and God will be greatly glorified through what happens to me." 
John13:32 And very soon God will unveil the glory of the Son of Man. 
John13:33 “My dear friends, I only have a brief time left to be with you. And then you will search and long for me. But I tell you what I told the Jewish leaders: you’ll not be able to come where I am." 
John13:34 “So I give you now a new commandment: Love each other just as much as I have loved you. 
John13:35 For when you demonstrate the same love I have for you by loving one another, everyone will know that you’re my true followers.”" 
John13:36 Peter interjected, “But, Master, where are you going?” Jesus replied, “Where I am going you won’t be able to follow, but one day you will follow me there.”" 
John13:37 Peter said, “What do you mean I’m not able to follow you now? I would sacrifice my life to die for you!”" 
John13:38 Jesus answered, “Would you really lay down your life for me, Peter? Here’s the absolute truth: Before the rooster crows in the morning, you will say three times that you don’t even know me!”" 
John14:1 “Don’t worry or surrender to your fear. For you’ve believed in God, now trust and believe in me also." 
John14:2 My Father’s house has many dwelling places. If it were otherwise, I would tell you plainly, because I go to prepare a place for you." 
John14:3 And when everything is ready, I will come back and take you to myself so that you will be where I am." 
John14:4 And you already know the way to the place where I’m going.” 
John14:5 Thomas said to him, “Master, we don’t know where you’re going, so how could we know the way there?”" 
John14:6 Jesus explained, “I am the Way, I am the Truth, and I am the Life. No one comes next to the Father except through union with me. To know me is to know my Father too." 
John14:7 And from now on you will realize that you have seen him and experienced him.” 
John14:8 Philip spoke up, “Lord, show us the Father, and that will be all that we need!”" 
John14:9 Jesus replied, “Philip, I’ve been with you all this time and you still don’t know who I am? How could you ask me to show you the Father, for anyone who has looked at me has seen the Father." 
John14:10 Don’t you believe that the Father is living in me and that I am living in the Father? Even my words are not my own but come from my Father, for he lives in me and performs his miracles of power through me." 
John14:11 Believe that I live as one with my Father and that my Father lives as one with me—or at least, believe because of the mighty miracles I have done." 
John14:12 “I tell you this timeless truth: The person who follows me in faith, believing in me, will do the same mighty miracles that I do—even greater miracles than these because I go to be with my Father!" 
John14:13 For I will do whatever you ask me to do when you ask me in my name. And that is how the Son will show what the Father is really like and bring glory to him. 
John14:14 Ask me anything in my name, and I will do it for you!”" 
John14:15 “Loving me empowers you to obey my commands. 
John14:16 And I will ask the Father and he will give you another Savior, the Holy Spirit of Truth, who will be to you a friend just like me—and he will never leave you. The world won’t receive him because they can’t see him or know him. But you know him intimately because he remains with you and will live inside you." 
John14:17  
John14:18 “I promise that I will never leave you helpless or abandon you as orphans—I will come back to you! 
John14:19 Soon I will leave this world and they will see me no longer, but you will see me, because I will live again, and you will come alive too." 
John14:20 So when that day comes, you will know that I am living in the Father and that you are one with me, for I will be living in you." 
John14:21 Those who truly love me are those who obey my commands. Whoever passionately loves me will be passionately loved by my Father. And I will passionately love him in return and will reveal myself to him.” 
John14:22 Then one of the disciples named Judas (not Judas Iscariot) said, “Lord, why is it you will only reveal your identity to us and not to everyone?”" 
John14:23 Jesus replied, “Loving me empowers you to obey my word. And my Father will love you so deeply that we will come to you and make you our dwelling place." 
John14:24 But those who don’t love me will not obey my words. The Father did not send me to speak my own revelation, but the words of my Father." 
John14:25 I am telling you this while I am still with you. 
John14:26 But when the Father sends the Spirit of Holiness, the One like me who sets you free, he will teach you all things in my name. And he will inspire you to remember every word that I’ve told you." 
John14:27 “I leave the gift of peace with you—my peace. Not the kind of fragile peace given by the world, but my perfect peace. Don’t yield to fear or be troubled in your hearts—instead, be courageous!" 
John14:28 “Remember what I’ve told you, that I must go away, but I promise to come back to you. So if you truly love me, you will be glad for me, since I’m returning to my Father, who is greater than I." 
John14:29 So when all of these things happen, you will still trust and cling to me." 
John14:30 I won’t speak with you much longer, for the ruler of this dark world is coming. But he has no power over me, for he has nothing to use against me." 
John14:31 I am doing exactly what the Father destined for me to accomplish, so that the world will discover how much I love my Father. Now come with me.”" 
John15:1 “I am a true sprouting vine, and the farmer who tends the vine is my Father." 
John15:2 He cares for the branches connected to me by lifting and propping up the fruitless branches and pruning every fruitful branch to yield a greater harvest. 
John15:3 The words I have spoken over you have already cleansed you. 
John15:4 So you must remain in life-union with me, for I remain in life-union with you. For as a branch severed from the vine will not bear fruit, so your life will be fruitless unless you live your life intimately joined to mine." 
John15:5 “I am the sprouting vine and you’re my branches. As you live in union with me as your source, fruitfulness will stream from within you—but when you live separated from me you are powerless." 
John15:6 If a person is separated from me, he is discarded; such branches are gathered up and thrown into the fire to be burned." 
John15:7 But if you live in life-union with me and if my words live powerfully within you—then you can ask whatever you desire and it will be done. 
John15:8 When your lives bear abundant fruit, you demonstrate that you are my mature disciples who glorify my Father!" 
John15:9 “I love each of you with the same love that the Father loves me. You must continually let my love nourish your hearts. 
John15:10 If you keep my commands, you will live in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commands, for I continually live nourished and empowered by his love." 
John15:11 My purpose for telling you these things is so that the joy that I experience will fill your hearts with overflowing gladness! 
John15:12 “So this is my command: Love each other deeply, as much as I have loved you." 
John15:13 For the greatest love of all is a love that sacrifices all. And this great love is demonstrated when a person sacrifices his life for his friends. 
John15:14 “You show that you are my intimate friends when you obey all that I command you. 
John15:15 I have never called you ‘servants,’ because a master doesn’t confide in his servants, and servants don’t always understand what the master is doing. But I call you my most intimate and cherished friends, for I reveal to you everything that I’ve heard from my Father." 
John15:16 You didn’t choose me, but I’ve chosen and commissioned you to go into the world to bear fruit. And your fruit will last, because whatever you ask of my Father, for my sake, he will give it to you!" 
John15:17 So this is my parting command: Love one another deeply!” 
John15:18 “Just remember, when the unbelieving world hates you, they first hated me." 
John15:19 If you were to give your allegiance to the world, they would love and welcome you as one of their own. But because you won’t align yourself with the values of this world, they will hate you. I have chosen you and taken you out of the world to be mine." 
John15:20 So remember what I taught you, that a servant isn’t superior to his master. And since they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. And if they obey my teachings, they will also obey yours." 
John15:21 They will treat you this way because you are mine, and they don’t know the One who sent me." 
John15:22 “If I had not come and spoken these things to the unbelieving world, they would not feel the guilt of their sin, but now their sin is left uncovered." 
John15:23 If anyone hates me, they hate my Father also." 
John15:24 If I had not performed miracles in their presence like no one else has done, they would not feel the guilt of their sins. But now, they have seen and hated both me and my Father." 
John15:25 And all of this has happened to fulfill what is written in their Scriptures: They hated me for no reason. 
John15:26 “And I will send you the Divine Encourager from the very presence of my Father. He will come to you, the Spirit of Truth, emanating from the Father, and he will speak to you about me." 
John15:27 And you will tell everyone the truth about me, for you have walked with me from the start.”" 
John16:1 “I have told you this so that you would not surrender to confusion or doubt. 
John16:2 For you will be excommunicated from the synagogues, and a time is coming when you will be put to death by misguided ones who will presume to be doing God a great service by putting you to death." 
John16:3 And they will do these things because they don’t know anything about the Father or me. 
John16:4 I’m telling you this now so that when their time comes you will remember that I foretold it. I didn’t tell you this in the beginning because I was still with you. 
John16:5 But now that I’m about to leave you and go back to join the One who sent me, you need to be told. Yet, not one of you are asking me where I’m going." 
John16:6 Instead your hearts are filled with sadness because I’ve told you these things. 
John16:7 But here’s the truth: It’s to your advantage that I go away, for if I don’t go away the Divine Encourager will not be released to you. But after I depart, I will send him to you." 
John16:8 And when he comes, he will expose sin and prove that the world is wrong about God’s righteousness and his judgments." 
John16:9 “ ‘Sin,’ because they refuse to believe in who I am." 
John16:10 “God’s ‘righteousness,’ because I’m going back to join the Father and you’ll see me no longer." 
John16:11 “And ‘judgment’ because the ruler of this dark world has already received his sentence. 
John16:12 “There is so much more I would like to say to you, but it’s more than you can grasp at this moment." 
John16:13 But when the truth-giving Spirit comes, he will unveil the reality of every truth within you. He won’t speak on his own, but only what he hears from the Father, and he will reveal prophetically to you what is to come." 
John16:14 He will glorify me on the earth, for he will receive from me what is mine and reveal it to you." 
John16:15 Everything that belongs to the Father belongs to me—that’s why I say that the Divine Encourager will receive what is mine and reveal it to you. 
John16:16 Soon you won’t see me any longer, but then, after a little while, you will see me in a new way.”" 
John16:17 Some of the disciples asked each other, “What does he mean, ‘Soon you won’t see me,’ and, ‘A little while after that and you will see me in a new way’? And what does he mean, ‘Because I’m going to my Father’?”" 
John16:18 So they kept on repeating, “What’s the meaning of ‘a little while’? We have no clue what he’s talking about!”" 
John16:19 Jesus knew what they were thinking, and it was obvious that they were anxious to ask him what he had meant, so he spoke up and said," 
John16:20 “Let me make it quite clear: You will weep and be overcome with grief over what happens to me. The unbelieving world will be happy, while you will be filled with sorrow. But know this, your sadness will turn into joy when you see me again!" 
John16:21 Just like a woman giving birth experiences intense labor pains in delivering her baby, yet after the child is born she quickly forgets what she went through because of the overwhelming joy of knowing that a new baby has been born into the world." 
John16:22 “So will you also pass through a time of intense sorrow when I am taken from you, but you will see me again! And then your hearts will burst with joy, with no one being able to take it from you!" 
John16:23 For here is eternal truth: When that time comes you won’t need to ask me for anything, but instead you will go directly to the Father and ask him for anything you desire and he will give it to you, because of your relationship with me." 
John16:24 Until now you’ve not been bold enough to ask the Father for a single thing in my name, but now you can ask, and keep on asking him! And you can be sure that you’ll receive what you ask for, and your joy will have no limits!" 
John16:25 “I have spoken to you using figurative language, but the time is coming when I will no longer teach you with veiled speech, but I will teach you about the Father with your eyes unveiled." 
John16:26 And I will not need to ask the Father on your behalf, for you’ll ask him directly because of your new relationship with me." 
John16:27 For the Father tenderly loves you, because you love me and believe that I’ve come from God." 
John16:28 I came to you sent from the Father’s presence, and I entered into the created world, and now I will leave this world and return to the Father’s side.”" 
John16:29 His disciples said, “At last you’re speaking to us clearly and not using veiled speech and metaphors!" 
John16:30 Now we understand that you know everything there is to know, and we don’t need to question you further. And everything you’ve taught us convinces us that you have come directly from God!”" 
John16:31 Jesus replied, “Now you finally believe in me." 
John16:32 And the time has come when you will all be scattered, and each one of you will go your own way, leaving me alone! Yet I am never alone, for the Father is always with me." 
John16:33 And everything I’ve taught you is so that the peace which is in me will be in you and will give you great confidence as you rest in me. For in this unbelieving world you will experience trouble and sorrows, but you must be courageous, for I have conquered the world!”" 
John17:1 This is what Jesus prayed as he looked up into heaven, “Father, the time has come. Unveil the glorious splendor of your Son so that I will magnify your glory!" 
John17:2 You have already given me authority over all people so that I may give the gift of eternal life to all those that you have given to me. 
John17:3 Eternal life means to know and experience you as the only true God, and to know and experience Jesus Christ, as the Son whom you have sent." 
John17:4 I have glorified you on the earth by faithfully doing everything you’ve told me to do. 
John17:5 So my Father, restore me back to the glory that we shared together when we were face-to-face before the universe was created.”" 
John17:6 “Father, I have manifested who you really are and I have revealed you to the men and women that you gave to me. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have fastened your Word firmly to their hearts." 
John17:7 And now at last they know that everything I have is a gift from you," 
John17:8 And the very words you gave to me to speak I have passed on to them. They have received your words and carry them in their hearts. They are convinced that I have come from your presence, and they have fully believed that you sent me to represent you." 
John17:9 So with deep love, I pray for my disciples. I’m not asking on behalf of the unbelieving world, but for those who belong to you, those you have given me." 
John17:10 For all who belong to me now belong to you. And all who belong to you now belong to me as well, and my glory is revealed through their surrendered lives." 
John17:11 “Holy Father, I am about to leave this world to return and be with you, but my disciples will remain here. Holy Father, each one that you have given me, keep them in your name so that they will be united as one, even as we are one." 
John17:12 While I was with these that you have given me, I was guarding them and keeping them in your name. Not one of them is lost, except the one that was destined to be lost, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled." 
John17:13 “But now I am returning to you so Father, I pray that they will experience and enter into my joyous delight in you so that it is fulfilled in them and overflows." 
John17:14 I have given them your message and that is why the unbelieving world hates them. For their allegiance is no longer to this world because I am not of this world. 
John17:15 I am not asking that you remove them from the world, but I ask that you guard their hearts from evil," 
John17:16 For they no longer belong to this world any more than I do. 
John17:17 “Your Word is truth! So make them holy by the truth. 
John17:18 I have commissioned them to represent me just as you commissioned me to represent you. 
John17:19 And now I dedicate myself to them as a holy sacrifice so that they will live as fully dedicated to God and be made holy by your truth.” 
John17:20 “And I ask not only for these disciples, but also for all those who will one day believe in me through their message." 
John17:21 I pray for them all to be joined together as one even as you and I, Father, are joined together as one. I pray for them to become one with us so that the world will recognize that you sent me." 
John17:22 For the very glory you have given to me I have given them so that they will be joined together as one and experience the same unity that we enjoy. 
John17:23 You live fully in me and now I live fully in them so that they will experience perfect unity, and the world will be convinced that you have sent me, for they will see that you love each one of them with the same passionate love that you have for me." 
John17:24 “Father, I ask that you allow everyone that you have given to me to be with me where I am! Then they will see my full glory— the very splendor you have placed upon me because you have loved me even before the beginning of time." 
John17:25 “You are my righteous Father, but the unbelieving world has never known you in the perfect way that I know you! And all those who believe in me also know that you have sent me!" 
John17:26 I have revealed to them who you are and I will continue to make you even more real to them, so that they may experience the same endless love that you have for me, for your love will now live in them, even as I live in them!”" 
John18:1 After Jesus finished this prayer; he left with his disciples and went across the Kidron Valley to a place where there was a garden. 
John18:2 Judas, the traitor, knew where this place was, for Jesus had gone there often with his disciples." 
John18:3 The Pharisees and the leading priests had given Judas a large detachment of Roman soldiers and temple police to seize Jesus. Judas guided them to the garden, all of them carrying torches and lanterns and armed with swords and spears." 
John18:4 Jesus, knowing full well what was about to happen, went out to the garden entrance to meet them. Stepping forward, he asked, “Who are you looking for?”" 
John18:5 “Jesus of Nazareth,” they replied. (Now Judas, the traitor, was among them.) He replied, “I am he.”" 
John18:6 And the moment Jesus spoke the words, “I am he,” the mob fell backward to the ground!" 
John18:7 So once more, Jesus asked them, “Who are you looking for?” As they stood up, they answered, “Jesus of Nazareth.”" 
John18:8 Jesus replied, “I told you that I am the one you’re looking for, so if you want me, let these men go home.”" 
John18:9 He said this to fulfill the prophecy he had spoken, “Father, not one of those you have given me has been lost.”" 
John18:10 Suddenly, Peter took out his sword and struck the high priest’s servant, slashing off his right ear! The servant’s name was Malchus." 
John18:11 Jesus ordered Peter, “Put your sword away! Do you really think I will avoid the suffering which my Father has assigned to me?”" 
John18:12 Then the soldiers and their captain, along with the Jewish officers, seized Jesus and tied him up." 
John18:13 They took him first to Annas, as he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year." 
John18:14 Caiaphas was the one who had persuaded the Jewish leaders that it would be better off to have one person die for the sake of the people. 
John18:15 Peter and another disciple followed along behind them as they took Jesus into the courtyard of Annas’ palace. Since the other disciple was well known to the high priest, he entered in," 
John18:16 but Peter was left standing outside by the gate. Then the other disciple came back out to the servant girl who was guarding the gate and convinced her to allow Peter inside. 
John18:17 As he passed inside, the young servant girl guarding the gate took a look at Peter and said to him, “Aren’t you one of his disciples?” He denied it, saying, “No! I’m not!”" 
John18:18 Now because it was cold, the soldiers and guards made a charcoal fire and were standing around it to keep warm. So Peter huddled there with them around the fire." 
John18:19 The high priest interrogated Jesus concerning his disciples and his teachings. 
John18:20 Jesus answered Annas’ questions by saying, “I have said nothing in secret. At all times I have taught openly and publicly in a synagogue, in the temple courts, and wherever the people assemble." 
John18:21 Why would you ask me for evidence to condemn me? Ask those who have heard what I’ve taught. They can tell you.” 
John18:22 Just then one of the guards standing near Jesus punched him in the face with his fist and said, “How dare you answer the high priest like that!”" 
John18:23 Jesus replied, “If my words are evil, then prove it. But if I haven’t broken any laws, then why would you hit me?”" 
John18:24 Then Annas sent Jesus, still tied up, across the way to the high priest Caiaphas." 
John18:25 Meanwhile, Peter was still standing in the courtyard by the fire. And one of the guards standing there said to him, “Aren’t you one of his disciples? I know you are!” Peter swore and said, “I am not his disciple!”" 
John18:26 But one of the servants of the high priest, a relative to the man whose ear Peter had cut off, looked at him and said, “Wait! Didn’t I see you out there in the garden with Jesus?”" 
John18:27 Then Peter denied it the third time and said, “No!”—and at that very same moment, a rooster crowed nearby." 
John18:28 Before dawn they took Jesus from his trial before Caiaphas to the Roman governor’s palace. Now the Jews refused to go into the Roman governor’s residence to avoid ceremonial defilement before eating the Passover meal. 
John18:29 So Pilate came outside where they waited and asked them pointedly, “Tell me, what exactly is the accusation that you bring against this man? What has he done?”" 
John18:30 They answered, “We wouldn’t be coming here to hand over this ‘criminal’ to you if he wasn’t guilty of some wrongdoing!”" 
John18:31 Pilate said, “Very well, then you take him yourselves and go pass judgment on him according to your Jewish laws!” But the Jewish leaders complained and said, “We don’t have legal authority to put anyone to death. You should have him crucified! ”" 
John18:32 (This was to fulfill the words of Jesus when he predicted the manner of death that he would die.) 
John18:33 Upon hearing this, Pilate went back inside his palace and summoned Jesus. Looking him over, Pilate asked him, “Are you really the king of the Jews?”" 
John18:34 Jesus replied, “Are you asking because you really want to know, or are you only asking this because others have said it about me?”" 
John18:35 Pilate responded, “Only a Jew would care about this; do I look like a Jew? It’s your own people and your religious leaders that have handed you over to me. So tell me, Jesus, what have you done wrong?”" 
John18:36 Jesus looked at Pilate and said, “The royal power of my kingdom realm doesn’t come from this world. If it did, then my followers would be fighting to the end to defend me from the Jewish leaders. My kingdom realm authority is not from this realm.”" 
John18:37 Then Pilate responded, “Oh, so then you are a king?” “You are right.” Jesus said, “I was born a King, and I have come into this world to prove what truth really is. And everyone who loves the truth will receive my words.”" 
John18:38 Pilate looked at Jesus and said, “What is truth?” As silence filled the room, Pilate went back out to where the Jewish leaders were waiting and said to them, “He’s not guilty. I couldn’t even find one fault with him." 
John18:39 Now, you do know that we have a custom that I release one prisoner every year at Passover—shall I release your king—the king of the Jews?”" 
John18:40 They shouted out over and over, “No, not him! Give us Barabbas!” (Now Barabbas was a robber and a troublemaker.)" 
John19:1 Then Pilate ordered Jesus to be brutally beaten with a whip of leather straps embedded with metal. 
John19:2 And the soldiers also wove thorn-branches into a crown and set it on his head and placed a purple robe over his shoulders. 
John19:3 Then, one by one, they came in front of him to mock him by saying, “Hail, to the king of the Jews!” And one after the other, they repeatedly punched him in the face." 
John19:4 Once more Pilate went out and said to the Jewish officials, “I will bring him out once more so that you know that I’ve found nothing wrong with him.”" 
John19:5 So when Jesus emerged, bleeding, wearing the purple robe and the crown of thorns on his head, Pilate said to them, “Look at him! Here is your man!”" 
John19:6 No sooner did the high priests and the temple guards see Jesus that they all shouted in a frenzy, “Crucify him! Crucify him!” Pilate replied, “You take him then and nail him to a cross yourselves! I told you—he’s not guilty! I find no reason to condemn him.”" 
John19:7 The Jewish leaders shouted back, “But we have the Law! And according to our Law, he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God!”" 
John19:8 Then Pilate was greatly alarmed when he heard that Jesus claimed to be the Son of God! 
John19:9 So he took Jesus back inside and said to him, “Where have you come from?” But once again, silence filled the room." 
John19:10 Perplexed, Pilate said, “Are you going to play deaf? Don’t you know that I have the power to grant you your freedom or nail you to a tree?”" 
John19:11 Jesus answered, “You would have no power over me at all, unless it was given to you from above. This is why the one who betrayed me is guilty of an even greater sin.”" 
John19:12 From then on Pilate tried to find a way out of the situation and to set him free, but the Jewish authorities shouted him down: “If you let this man go, you’re no friend of Caesar! Anyone who declares himself a king is an enemy of the emperor!”" 
John19:13 So when Pilate heard this threat, he relented and had Jesus, who was torn and bleeding, brought outside. Then he went up the elevated stone platform and took his seat on the judgment bench—which in Aramaic is called Gabbatha, or “The Bench.”" 
John19:14 And it was now almost noon. And it was the same day they were preparing to slay the Passover lambs. Then Pilate said to the Jewish officials, “Look! Here is your king!”" 
John19:15 But they screamed out, “Take him away! Take him away and crucify him!” Pilate replied, “Shall I nail your king to a cross?” The high priests answered, “We have no other king but Caesar!”" 
John19:16 Then Pilate handed Jesus over to them. So the soldiers seized him and took him away to be crucified. 
John19:17 Jesus carried his own cross out of the city to the place called “The Skull,” which in Aramaic is Golgotha." 
John19:18 And there they nailed him to the cross. He was crucified, along with two others, one on each side with Jesus in the middle." 
John19:19 Pilate had them post a sign over the cross, which was written in three languages—Aramaic, Latin, and Greek. Many of the people of Jerusalem read the sign, for he was crucified near the city. The sign stated: “Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews.”" 
John19:20  
John19:21 But the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, “You must change the sign! Don’t let it say, ‘King of the Jews,’ but rather—‘he claimed to be the King of the Jews!’ ”" 
John19:22 Pilate responded, “What I have written will remain!”" 
John19:23 Now when the soldiers crucified Jesus, they divided up his clothes into four shares, one for each of them. But his tunic was seamless, woven from the top to the bottom as a single garment." 
John19:24 So the soldiers said to each other, “Don’t tear it—let’s throw dice to see who gets it!” The soldiers did all of this not knowing they fulfilled the Scripture that says, “They divided my garments among them and gambled for my clothing.”" 
John19:25 Mary, Jesus’ mother, was standing next to his cross, along with Mary’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene." 
John19:26 So when Jesus looked down and saw the disciple he loved standing with her, he said, “Mother, look—John will be a son to you.”" 
John19:27 Then he said, “ John, look—she will be a mother to you!” From that day on, John accepted Mary into his home as one of his own family." 
John19:28 Jesus knew that his mission was accomplished, and to fulfill the Scripture, Jesus said: “I am thirsty.”" 
John19:29 A jar of sour wine was sitting nearby, so they soaked a sponge with it and put it on the stalk of hyssop and raised it to his lips." 
John19:30 When he had sipped the sour wine, he said, “It is finished, my bride!” Then he bowed his head and surrendered his spirit to God." 
John19:31 The Jewish leaders did not want the bodies of the victims to remain on the cross through the next day, since it was the day of preparation for a very important Sabbath. So they asked Pilate’s permission to have the victims’ legs broken to hasten their death and their bodies taken down before sunset." 
John19:32 So the soldiers broke the legs of the two men who were nailed there. 
John19:33 But when they came to Jesus, they realized that he had already died, so they decided not to break his legs." 
John19:34 But one of the soldiers took a spear and pierced Jesus’ side, and blood and water gushed out." 
John19:35 (I, John, do testify to the certainty of what took place, and I write the truth so that you might also believe.)" 
John19:36 For all these things happened to fulfill the prophecies of the Scriptures: “Not one of his bones will be broken,”" 
John19:37 and, “They will gaze on the one they have pierced!”" 
John19:38 After this, Joseph from the city of Ramah, who was a secret disciple of Jesus for fear of the Jewish authorities, asked Pilate if he could remove the body of Jesus. So Pilate granted him permission to remove the body from the cross." 
John19:39 Now Nicodemus, who had once come to Jesus privately at night, accompanied Joseph, and together they carried a significant amount of myrrh and aloes to the cross." 
John19:40 Then they took Jesus’ body and wrapped it in strips of linen with the embalming spices according to the Jewish burial customs. 
John19:41 Near the place where Jesus was crucified was a garden, and in the garden there was a new tomb where no one had yet been laid to rest." 
John19:42 And because the Sabbath was approaching, and the tomb was nearby, that’s where they laid the body of Jesus." 
John20:1 Very early Sunday morning, before sunrise, Mary Magdalene made her way to the tomb. And when she arrived she discovered that the stone that sealed the entrance to the tomb was moved away!" 
John20:2 So she went running as fast as she could to go tell Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved. She told them, “They’ve taken the Lord’s body from the tomb, and we don’t know where he is!”" 
John20:3 Then Peter and the other disciple jumped up and ran to the tomb to go see for themselves. 
John20:4 They started out together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first." 
John20:5 He didn’t enter the tomb, but peeked in, and saw only the linen cloths lying there." 
John20:6 Then Peter came behind him and went right into the tomb. He too noticed the linen cloths lying there," 
John20:7 but the burial cloth that had been on Jesus’ head had been rolled up and placed separate from the other cloths. 
John20:8 Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first went in, and after one look, he believed!" 
John20:9 For until then they hadn’t understood the Scriptures that prophesied that he was destined to rise from the dead. 
John20:10 Puzzled, Peter and the other disciple then left and went back to their homes." 
John20:11 Mary arrived back at the tomb, broken and sobbing. She stooped to peer inside, and through her tears" 
John20:12 she saw two angels in dazzling white robes, sitting where Jesus’ body had been laid—one at the head and one at the feet!" 
John20:13 “Dear woman, why are you crying?” they asked. Mary answered, “They have taken away my Lord, and I don’t know where they’ve laid him.”" 
John20:14 Then she turned around to leave, and there was Jesus standing in front of her, but she didn’t realize that it was him!" 
John20:15 He said to her, “Dear woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for?” Mary answered, thinking he was only the gardener, “Sir, if you have taken his body somewhere else, tell me, and I will go and . . .”" 
John20:16 “Mary,” Jesus interrupted her. Turning to face him, she said, “Rabboni!” (Aramaic for “My teacher!”)" 
John20:17 Jesus cautioned her, “Mary, don’t cling to me, for I haven’t yet ascended to God, my Father. And he’s not only my Father and God, but now he’s your Father and your God! Now go to my brothers and tell them what I’ve told you, that I am ascending to my Father—and your Father, to my God—and your God!”" 
John20:18 Then Mary Magdalene left to inform the disciples of her encounter with Jesus. “I have seen the Lord!” she told them. And she gave them his message. 
John20:19 That evening, the disciples gathered together, and because they were afraid of reprisals from the Jewish leaders, they had locked the doors. But suddenly Jesus appeared among them and said, “Peace to you!”" 
John20:20 Then he showed them the wounds of his hands and his side—they were overjoyed to see the Lord with their own eyes! 
John20:21 Jesus repeated his greeting, “Peace to you!” And he told them, “Just as the Father has sent me, I’m now sending you.”" 
John20:22 Then, taking a deep breath, he blew on them and said, “Receive the Holy Spirit." 
John20:23 I send you to preach the forgiveness of sins—and people’s sins will be forgiven. But if you don’t proclaim the forgiveness of their sins, they will remain guilty.”" 
John20:24 One of the twelve wasn’t present when Jesus appeared to them—it was Thomas, whose nickname was “the Twin.”" 
John20:25 So the disciples informed him, “We have seen the Lord with our own eyes!” Still unconvinced, Thomas replied, “There’s no way I’m going to believe this unless I personally see the wounds of the nails in his hands, touch them with my finger, and put my hand into the wound of his side where he was pierced!”" 
John20:26 Then eight days later, Thomas and all the others were in the house together. And even though all the doors were locked, Jesus suddenly stood before them! “Peace to you,” he said." 
John20:27 Then, looking into Thomas’ eyes, he said, “Put your finger here in the wounds of my hands. Here—put your hand into my wounded side and see for yourself. Thomas, don’t give in to your doubts any longer, just believe!”" 
John20:28 Then the words spilled out of his heart—“You are my Lord, and you are my God!”" 
John20:29 Jesus responded, “Thomas, now that you’ve seen me, you believe. But there are those who have never seen me with their eyes but have believed in me with their hearts, and they will be blessed even more!”" 
John20:30 Jesus went on to do many more miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not even included in this book." 
John20:31 But all that is recorded here is so that you will fully believe that Jesus is the Anointed One, the Son of God, and that through your faith in him you will experience eternal life by the power of his name!" 
John21:1 Later, Jesus appeared once again to a group of his disciples by Lake Galilee." 
John21:2 It happened one day while Peter, Thomas (the Twin), Nathanael (from Cana in Galilee), Jacob, John, and two other disciples were all together." 
John21:3 Peter told them, “I’m going fishing.” And they all replied, “We’ll go with you.” So they went out and fished through the night, but caught nothing." 
John21:4 Then at dawn, Jesus was standing there on the shore, but the disciples didn’t realize that it was him!" 
John21:5 He called out to them, saying, “Hey guys! Did you catch any fish?” “Not a thing,” they replied." 
John21:6 Jesus shouted to them, “Throw your net over the starboard side, and you’ll catch some!” And so they did as he said, and they caught so many fish they couldn’t even pull in the net!" 
John21:7 Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It’s the Lord!” When Peter heard him say that, he quickly wrapped his outer garment around him, and because he was athletic, he dove right into the lake to go to Jesus!" 
John21:8 The other disciples then brought the boat to shore, dragging their catch of fish. They weren’t far from land, only about a hundred meters." 
John21:9 And when they got to shore, they noticed a charcoal fire with some roasted fish and bread." 
John21:10 Then Jesus said, “Bring some of the fish you just caught.”" 
John21:11 So Peter waded into the water and helped pull the net to shore. It was full of many large fish, exactly one hundred and fifty-three, but even with so many fish, the net was not torn." 
John21:12 “Come, let’s have some breakfast,” Jesus said to them. And not one of the disciples needed to ask who it was, because every one of them knew it was the Lord." 
John21:13 Then Jesus came close to them and served them the bread and the fish. 
John21:14 This was the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after his resurrection. 
John21:15 After they had breakfast, Jesus said to Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you burn with love for me more than these?” Peter answered, “Yes, Lord! You know that I have great affection for you!” “Then take care of my lambs,” Jesus said." 
John21:16 Jesus repeated his question the second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you burn with love for me?” Peter answered, “Yes, my Lord! You know that I have great affection for you!” “Then take care of my sheep,” Jesus said." 
John21:17 Then Jesus asked him again, “Peter, son of Jonah, do you have great affection for me?” Peter was saddened by being asked the third time and said, “My Lord, you know everything. You know that I burn with love for you!” Jesus replied, “Then feed my lambs!" 
John21:18 Peter, listen, when you were younger you made your own choices and you went where you pleased. But one day when you are old, others will tie you up and escort you where you would not choose to go—and you will spread out your arms.”" 
John21:19 (Jesus said this to Peter as a prophecy of what kind of death he would die, for the glory of God.) And then he said, “Peter, follow me!”" 
John21:20 Then Peter turned and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. (This was the disciple who sat close to Jesus at the Last Supper and had asked him, “Lord, who is the one that will betray you?”)" 
John21:21 So when Peter saw him, he asked Jesus, “What’s going to happen to him?”" 
John21:22 Jesus replied, “If I decide to let him live until I return, what concern is that of yours? You must still keep on following me!”" 
John21:23 So the rumor started to circulate among the believers that this disciple wasn’t going to die. But Jesus never said that, he only said, “If I let him live until I return, what concern is that of yours?”" 
John21:24 I, John, am that disciple who has written these things to testify of the truth, and we know that what I’ve documented is accurate." 
John21:25 Jesus did countless things that I haven’t included here. And if every one of his works were written down and described one by one, I suppose that the world itself wouldn’t have enough room to contain the books that would have to be written!" 
Acts1:1 To Theophilus, the lover of God. I write to you again, my dear friend, to give you further details about the life of our Lord Jesus and all the things that he did and taught." 
Acts1:2 Just before he ascended into heaven, Jesus left instructions through the Holy Spirit for the apostles he had chosen." 
Acts1:3 After the sufferings of his cross, Jesus appeared alive many times to these same apostles over a forty-day period, proving to them with many convincing signs that he had been resurrected. During these encounters, he taught them the truths of God’s kingdom." 
Acts1:4 Jesus instructed them, “Don’t leave Jerusalem, but wait here until you receive the gift I told you about, the gift the Father has promised." 
Acts1:5 For John baptized you in water, but in a few days from now you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit!”" 
Acts1:5 For John baptized you in water, but in a few days from now you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit!”" 
Acts1:6 Every time they were gathered together, they asked Jesus, “Lord, is it now the time for you to free Israel and restore our kingdom?”" 
Acts1:7 He answered, “The Father is the one who sets the fixed dates and the times of their fulfillment. You are not permitted to know the timing of all that he has prepared by his own authority." 
Acts1:8 But I promise you this—the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and you will be seized with power. You will be my messengers to Jerusalem, throughout Judea, the distant provinces —even to the remotest places on earth!”" 
Acts1:8 But I promise you this—the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and you will be seized with power. You will be my messengers to Jerusalem, throughout Judea, the distant provinces —even to the remotest places on earth!”" 
Acts1:9 Right after Jesus spoke those words, the disciples saw him being lifted into the sky, and disappearing into a cloud!" 
Acts1:10 As they stared into the sky, watching Jesus ascend, two men in white robes suddenly appeared beside them." 
Acts1:11 They told the startled disciples, “Galileans, why are you staring up into the sky? Jesus has been taken from you into heaven, but he will come back in the same way that you saw him ascend.”" 
Acts1:12 The disciples left the Mount of Olives and returned to Jerusalem, which was less than a mile away." 
Acts1:13 Arriving there, they went into a large second-floor room to pray. Those present were Peter, John, Jacob, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, Jacob (the son of Alpheus), Simon (the zealot), Judas (the son of Jacob), and a number of women, including Mary, Jesus’ mother. His brothers were there as well. All of them were united in prayer, gripped with one passion, interceding night and day." 
Acts1:13 Arriving there, they went into a large second-floor room to pray. Those present were Peter, John, Jacob, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, Jacob (the son of Alpheus), Simon (the zealot), Judas (the son of Jacob), and a number of women, including Mary, Jesus’ mother. His brothers were there as well. All of them were united in prayer, gripped with one passion, interceding night and day." 
Acts1:13 Arriving there, they went into a large second-floor room to pray. Those present were Peter, John, Jacob, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, Jacob (the son of Alpheus), Simon (the zealot), Judas (the son of Jacob), and a number of women, including Mary, Jesus’ mother. His brothers were there as well. All of them were united in prayer, gripped with one passion, interceding night and day." 
Acts1:14  
Acts1:15 During this time Peter stood up among the 120 believers who were gathered and said," 
Acts1:16 “Fellow believers, the Scripture David prophesied by the Holy Spirit concerning Judas had to be fulfilled. Judas betrayed our Lord Jesus and led the mob to the garden to arrest him." 
Acts1:17 He was one of us, and he was chosen to be an apostle just as we were." 
Acts1:18 He earned the wages of his sin, for he fell headfirst, and his belly split open, spilling his intestines on the ground." 
Acts1:19 Everyone in Jerusalem knows what happened to him. That’s why the field where he died is called in Aramaic ‘Haqel Dama,’ that is, ‘The Bloody Field.’" 
Acts1:20 For it is written in the Psalms: ‘Let his house be deserted and become a wasteland. No one will live there.’ And also: ‘Let another take his ministry.’ 
Acts1:21 “So then, we must choose his replacement from among those who have been with us from the very beginning," 
Acts1:22 from John’s baptism until Jesus’ ascension. And, like us, he must be a witness of his resurrection.”" 
Acts1:22 from John’s baptism until Jesus’ ascension. And, like us, he must be a witness of his resurrection.”" 
Acts1:23 They proposed two candidates: Joseph, who is also called Barsabbas the Just, and Matthias." 
Acts1:24 They all prayed, “Lord Yahweh, you know the heart of every man. Please give us clear revelation to know which of these two men you have chosen" 
Acts1:25 to be an apostle and take Judas’ place because he renounced his apostleship to go where he belonged.” 
Acts1:26 They cast lots and determined that Matthias was the Lord’s choice, so he was added to the eleven apostles." 
Acts2:1 On the day Pentecost was being fulfilled, all the disciples were gathered in one place." 
Acts2:2 Suddenly they heard the sound of a violent blast of wind rushing into the house from out of the heavenly realm. The roar of the wind was so overpowering it was all anyone could bear! 
Acts2:3 Then all at once a pillar of fire appeared before their eyes. It separated into tongues of fire that engulfed each one of them. 
Acts2:4 They were all filled and equipped with the Holy Spirit and were inspired to speak in tongues—empowered by the Spirit to speak in languages they had never learned! 
Acts2:5 Now, at that time there were Jewish worshipers who had emigrated from many different lands to live in Jerusalem." 
Acts2:6 When the people of the city heard the roaring sound, crowds came running to where it was coming from, stunned over what was happening, because each one could hear the disciples speaking in his or her own language." 
Acts2:7 Bewildered, they said to one another, “Aren’t these all Galileans?" 
Acts2:8 So how is it that we hear them speaking in our own languages? 
Acts2:9 We are northeastern Iranians, northwestern Iranians, Elamites, and those from Mesopotamia, Judea, east central Turkey, the coastal areas of the Black Sea, Asia," 
Acts2:9 We are northeastern Iranians, northwestern Iranians, Elamites, and those from Mesopotamia, Judea, east central Turkey, the coastal areas of the Black Sea, Asia," 
Acts2:10 north central Turkey, southern Turkey, Egypt, Libyans who are neighbors of Cyrene, visitors from all over the Roman Empire, both Jews and converts to Judaism, Cretans and Arabs." 
Acts2:11 Yet we hear them speaking of God’s mighty wonders in our own dialects!” 
Acts2:12 They all stood there, dumbfounded and astonished, saying to one another, “What is this phenomenon?”" 
Acts2:13 But others poked fun at them and said, “They’re just drunk on new wine.”" 
Acts2:14 Peter stood up with the eleven apostles and shouted to the crowd. “Listen carefully, my fellow Jews and residents of Jerusalem. You need to clearly understand what’s happening here." 
Acts2:15 These people are not drunk like you think they are, for it is only nine o’clock in the morning." 
Acts2:16 This is the fulfillment of what was prophesied through the prophet Joel, for God says:" 
Acts2:17 ‘This is what I will do in the last days —I will pour out my Spirit on everybody and cause your sons and daughters to prophesy, and your young men will see visions, and your old men will experience dreams from God." 
Acts2:18 The Holy Spirit will come upon all my servants, men and women alike, and they will prophesy." 
Acts2:19 I will reveal startling signs and wonders in the sky above and mighty miracles on the earth below. Blood and fire and pillars of clouds will appear. 
Acts2:20 For the sun will be turned dark and the moon blood-red before that great and awesome appearance of the day of the Lord. 
Acts2:21 But everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.’ ” 
Acts2:22 Peter continued, “People of Israel, listen to the facts. Jesus, the Victorious, was a man on a divine mission whose authority was clearly proven. For you know how God performed many powerful miracles, signs, and wonders through him." 
Acts2:23 This Man’s destiny was prearranged, for God knew that Jesus would be handed over to you to be crucified and that you would execute him on a cross by the hands of lawless men. Yet it was all part of his predetermined plan." 
Acts2:24 God destroyed the cords of death and raised him up, because it was impossible for death’s power to hold him prisoner." 
Acts2:25 This is the very thing David prophesied about him: ‘I continually see the Lord in front of me. He’s at my right hand, and I am never shaken." 
Acts2:26 No wonder my heart is glad and my glory celebrates! My mouth is filled with his praises, and I have hope that my body will live" 
Acts2:27 because you will not leave my soul among the dead, nor will you allow your sacred one to experience decay." 
Acts2:28 For you have revealed to me the pathways to life, and seeing your face fills me with euphoria!’" 
Acts2:29 “My fellow Jews, I can tell you there is no doubt that our noted patriarch has both died and been buried in his tomb, which remains to this day. So you can see that he was not referring to himself with those words." 
Acts2:30 But as a prophet, he knew God’s faithful promise, made with God’s unbreakable oath, that one of his descendants would take his throne." 
Acts2:31 So when peering into the future, David prophesied of the Messiah’s resurrection. And God revealed to him that the Messiah would not be abandoned to the realm of death, nor would his body experience decay." 
Acts2:32 “Can’t you see it? God has resurrected Jesus, and we all have seen him!" 
Acts2:33 “Then God exalted him to his right hand upon the throne of highest honor. And the Father gave him the authority to send the promised Holy Spirit, which is being poured out upon us today. This is what you’re seeing and hearing!" 
Acts2:34 “David wasn’t the one who ascended into heaven, but the one who prophesied: ‘ Yahweh said to my Lord, I honor you by enthroning you beside me," 
Acts2:35 until I make your enemies a footstool beneath your feet.’ 
Acts2:36 “Now everyone in Israel can know for certain that Jesus, whom you crucified, is the one God has made both Lord and the Messiah.”" 
Acts2:37 When they heard this they were crushed and realized what they had done to Jesus. Deeply moved, they said to Peter and the other apostles, “What do we need to do, brothers?”" 
Acts2:38 Peter replied, “Repent and return to God, and each one of you must be baptized in the name of Jesus, the Anointed One, to have your sins removed. Then you may take hold of the gift of the Holy Spirit." 
Acts2:39 For God’s promise of the Holy Spirit is for you and your families, for those yet to be born and for everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.”" 
Acts2:40 Peter preached to them and warned them with these words: “Be rescued from the wayward and perverse culture of this world!” 
Acts2:41 Those who believed the word that day numbered three thousand. They were all baptized and added to the church. 
Acts2:42 Every believer was faithfully devoted to following the teachings of the apostles. Their hearts were mutually linked to one another, sharing communion and coming together regularly for prayer." 
Acts2:43 A deep sense of holy awe swept over everyone, and the apostles performed many miraculous signs and wonders." 
Acts2:44 All the believers were in fellowship as one body, and they shared with one another whatever they had." 
Acts2:45 Out of generosity they even sold their assets to distribute the proceeds to those who were in need among them. 
Acts2:46 Daily they met together in the temple courts and in one another’s homes to celebrate communion. They shared meals together with joyful hearts and tender humility. 
Acts2:47 They were continually filled with praises to God, enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord kept adding to their number daily those who were coming to life." 
Acts3:1 One afternoon Peter and John went to the temple for the three o’clock prayer. 
Acts3:1 One afternoon Peter and John went to the temple for the three o’clock prayer. 
Acts3:2 As they came to the entrance called the Beautiful Gate, they were captured by the sight of a man crippled from birth being carried and placed at the entrance to the temple. He was often brought there to beg for money from those going in to worship." 
Acts3:3 When he noticed Peter and John going into the temple, he begged them for money." 
Acts3:3 When he noticed Peter and John going into the temple, he begged them for money." 
Acts3:4 Peter and John, looking straight into the eyes of the crippled man, said, “Look at us!”" 
Acts3:4 Peter and John, looking straight into the eyes of the crippled man, said, “Look at us!”" 
Acts3:5 Expecting a gift, he readily gave them his attention." 
Acts3:6 Then Peter said, “I don’t have money, but I’ll give you this—by the power of the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, stand up and walk!”" 
Acts3:7 Peter held out his right hand to the crippled man. As he pulled the man to his feet, suddenly power surged into his crippled feet and ankles. The man jumped up, stood there for a moment stunned, and then began to walk around! As he went into the temple courts with Peter and John, he leapt for joy and shouted praises to God." 
Acts3:7 Peter held out his right hand to the crippled man. As he pulled the man to his feet, suddenly power surged into his crippled feet and ankles. The man jumped up, stood there for a moment stunned, and then began to walk around! As he went into the temple courts with Peter and John, he leapt for joy and shouted praises to God." 
Acts3:8  
Acts3:9 When all the people saw him jumping up and down and heard him glorifying God," 
Acts3:10 they realized it was the crippled beggar they had passed by in front of the Beautiful Gate. Astonishment swept over the crowd, for they were amazed over what had happened to him." 
Acts3:11 Dumbfounded over what they were witnessing, the crowd ran over to Peter and John, who were standing under the covered walkway called Solomon’s Porch. Standing there also was the healed beggar, clinging to Peter and John." 
Acts3:11 Dumbfounded over what they were witnessing, the crowd ran over to Peter and John, who were standing under the covered walkway called Solomon’s Porch. Standing there also was the healed beggar, clinging to Peter and John." 
Acts3:12 With the crowd surrounding him, Peter said to them all, “People of Israel, listen to me! Why are you so amazed by this healing? Why do you stare at us? We didn’t make this crippled man walk by our own power or authority." 
Acts3:13 The God of our ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, has done this. For he has glorified his Servant Jesus, the one you denied to Pilate’s face when he decided to release him—and you insisted that he be crucified." 
Acts3:14 You rejected the one who is holy and righteous, and instead begged for a murderer to be released." 
Acts3:15 You killed the Prince of Life! But God raised him from the dead, and we stand here as witnesses to that fact." 
Acts3:16 Faith in Jesus’ name has healed this man standing before you. It is the faith that comes through believing in Jesus’ name that has made the crippled man walk right in front of your eyes! 
Acts3:17 “My fellow Jews, I realize that neither you nor your leaders realize the grave mistake you made." 
Acts3:18 But in spite of what you’ve done, God has fulfilled what he foretold through the prophets long ago about the sufferings of his Anointed One." 
Acts3:19 And now you must repent and turn back to God so that your sins will be removed, and so that times of refreshing will stream from the Lord’s presence." 
Acts3:20 And he will send you Jesus, the Messiah, the appointed one." 
Acts3:21 For he must remain in heaven until the restoration of all things has taken place, fulfilling everything that God said long ago through his holy prophets." 
Acts3:22 For has not Moses told us: ‘The Lord your God will raise up a prophet from among you who is like me. Listen to him and follow everything he tells you. 
Acts3:23 Every person who disobeys that prophet will be cut off and completely destroyed.’ 
Acts3:24 “In fact, every prophet from the time of Samuel onward has prophesied of these very days!" 
Acts3:25 And you are heirs of their prophecies and of the covenants God made with your fathers when he promised Abraham, ‘Your descendant will bring blessing to all the people on the earth.’" 
Acts3:26 “Now that God raised up his Son, he has chosen to send him first to you that he might bless you by turning each one of you from your wickedness.”" 
Acts4:1 The teaching and preaching of Peter and John angered the priests, the captain of the temple police, and representatives of the Jewish sect of the Sadducees. They were furious that the people were being taught that in Jesus there is a resurrection from the dead. So while Peter and John were still speaking, the Jewish authorities came to the temple courts to oppose them." 
Acts4:1 The teaching and preaching of Peter and John angered the priests, the captain of the temple police, and representatives of the Jewish sect of the Sadducees. They were furious that the people were being taught that in Jesus there is a resurrection from the dead. So while Peter and John were still speaking, the Jewish authorities came to the temple courts to oppose them." 
Acts4:2  
Acts4:3 They had them arrested, and since it was already evening they kept them in custody until the next day." 
Acts4:4 Yet there were many in the crowd who believed the message, bringing the total number of men who believed to nearly five thousand!" 
Acts4:5 The next day many Jewish leaders, religious scholars, and elders of the people convened a meeting in Jerusalem." 
Acts4:6 Annas the high priest was there with Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and others who were members of the high priest’s family." 
Acts4:6 Annas the high priest was there with Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and others who were members of the high priest’s family." 
Acts4:7 They made Peter and John stand in front of the council as they questioned them, saying, “Tell us, by what power and authority have you done these things?”" 
Acts4:7 They made Peter and John stand in front of the council as they questioned them, saying, “Tell us, by what power and authority have you done these things?”" 
Acts4:8 Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, answered, “Respected elders and leaders of the people, listen." 
Acts4:9 Are we being put on trial today for doing an act of kindness by healing a frail, crippled man? Well then," 
Acts4:10 you and everyone else in Israel should know that it is by the power of the name of Jesus that the crippled man stands here today completely healed! You crucified Jesus Christ of Nazareth, but God raised him from the dead." 
Acts4:11 This Jesus is ‘the stone that you, the builders, have rejected, and now he has become the cornerstone!’" 
Acts4:12 There is no one else who has the power to save us, for there is only one name to whom God has given authority by which we must experience salvation: the name of Jesus.”" 
Acts4:13 The council members were astonished as they witnessed the bold courage of Peter and John, especially when they discovered that they were just ordinary men who had never had religious training. Then they began to understand the effect Jesus had on them simply by spending time with him." 
Acts4:13 The council members were astonished as they witnessed the bold courage of Peter and John, especially when they discovered that they were just ordinary men who had never had religious training. Then they began to understand the effect Jesus had on them simply by spending time with him." 
Acts4:14 Standing there with them was the healed man, and there was nothing further they could say." 
Acts4:15 So they ordered them to leave the room while they discussed the matter. Among themselves, they said," 
Acts4:16 “What should we do with these men? Everyone in Jerusalem can clearly see that they’ve performed a notable sign and wonder—we can’t deny that. 
Acts4:17 But to keep this propaganda from spreading any further among the people, let’s threaten them severely and warn them to never speak to anyone in this name again.”" 
Acts4:18 So they had them brought back in before the council, and they commanded them to never teach the people or speak again using the name of Jesus." 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John replied, “You can judge for yourselves—is it better to listen to you or to God?" 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John replied, “You can judge for yourselves—is it better to listen to you or to God?" 
Acts4:20 It’s impossible for us to stop speaking about all the things we’ve seen and heard!” 
Acts4:21 Since the members of the council couldn’t come up with a crime they could punish them for, they threatened them once more and let them go. All the people praised God, thrilled over the miraculous healing of the crippled man." 
Acts4:22 And the man who received this miracle sign of healing was over forty years old. 
Acts4:23 As soon as they were released from custody, Peter and John went to the other believers and explained all that had happened with the high priest and the elders." 
Acts4:23 As soon as they were released from custody, Peter and John went to the other believers and explained all that had happened with the high priest and the elders." 
Acts4:24 When the believers heard their report, they raised their voices in unity and prayed, “Lord Yahweh, you are the Lord of all! You created the universe—the earth, the sky, the sea, and everything that is in them." 
Acts4:25 And you spoke by the Holy Spirit through your servant David, our forefather, saying: ‘How dare the nations plan a rebellion, ranting and raging against the Lord Most High? Their foolish plots are futile!" 
Acts4:26 Look at how the kings of the earth take their stand, with the rulers scheming and conspiring together against God and his anointed Messiah!’" 
Acts4:27 “In fact, Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with Jews and non-Jews, met together to take their stand against your holy servant, Jesus the Messiah." 
Acts4:28 They did to him all that your purpose and will had determined, according to the destiny you had marked out for him." 
Acts4:29 So now, Lord, listen to their threats to harm us. Empower us, as your servants, to speak the word of God freely and courageously." 
Acts4:30 Stretch out your hand of power through us to heal, and to move in signs and wonders by the name of your holy Son, Jesus!”" 
Acts4:31 As they prayed the earth shook beneath them, causing the building they were in to tremble. Each one of them was filled with the Holy Spirit, and they proclaimed the word of God with unrestrained boldness." 
Acts4:32 All the believers were one in mind and heart. Selfishness was not a part of their community, for they shared everything they had with one another." 
Acts4:33 The apostles gave powerful testimonies about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great measures of grace rested upon them all." 
Acts4:34 Some who owned houses or land sold them and brought the proceeds before the apostles to distribute to those without. Not a single person among them was needy. 
Acts4:35  
Acts4:36 For example, there was a Levite from Cyprus named Joseph, who sold his farmland and placed the proceeds at the feet of the apostles. They nicknamed him Barnabas (or “Encourager”)." 
Acts4:37  
Acts5:1 Now, a man named Ananias and his wife, Sapphira, likewise sold their farm." 
Acts5:2 They conspired to secretly keep back for themselves a portion of the proceeds. So when Ananias brought the money to the apostles, it was only a portion of the entire sale." 
Acts5:3 God revealed their secret to Peter, so he said to him, “Ananias, why did you let Satan fill your heart and make you think you could lie to the Holy Spirit? You only pretended to give it all, yet you hid back part of the proceeds from the sale of your property to keep for yourselves." 
Acts5:4 Before you sold it, wasn’t it yours to sell or to keep? And after you sold it, wasn’t the money entirely at your disposal? How could you plot such a thing in your heart? You haven’t lied to people; you’ve lied to God!”" 
Acts5:5 The moment Ananias heard those words, he fell over dead. Everyone was terrified when they heard what had happened." 
Acts5:6 Some young men came in and removed the body and buried him. 
Acts5:7 Three hours later, his wife came into the room, with no clue what had happened to her husband." 
Acts5:8 Peter said to her, “Tell me, were the two of you paid this amount for the sale of your land?” Sapphira said, “Yes, that’s how much it was.”" 
Acts5:9 Peter told her, “Why have you agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? I hear the footsteps of those who buried your husband at the door—they’re coming here to bury you too!”" 
Acts5:10 At that moment she dropped dead at Peter’s feet. When the young men came in, she was already dead, so they carried her out and buried her next to her husband." 
Acts5:11 The entire church was seized with a powerful sense of the fear of God, which came over all who heard what had happened." 
Acts5:12 The apostles performed many signs, wonders, and miracles among the people." 
Acts5:13 And the believers were wonderfully united as they met regularly in the temple courts in the area known as Solomon’s Porch. No one dared harm them, for everyone held them in high regard." 
Acts5:14 Continually more and more people believed in the Lord and were added to their number—great crowds of both men and women. 
Acts5:15 In fact, when people knew Peter was going to walk by, they carried the sick out to the streets and laid them down on cots and mats, knowing the incredible power emanating from him would overshadow them and heal them." 
Acts5:16 Great numbers of people swarmed into Jerusalem from the nearby villages. They brought with them the sick and those troubled by demons—and everyone was healed! 
Acts5:17 The high priest and his officials, who formed the party of the Sadducees, became extremely jealous over all that was happening," 
Acts5:18 so they had the apostles arrested, placed in chains, and thrown into jail." 
Acts5:19 But during the night, the Lord sent an angel who appeared before them. He supernaturally opened their prison doors and brought the apostles outside." 
Acts5:20 “Go,” the angel told them. “Stand in the temple courts and preach the words that bring life!”" 
Acts5:21 So early that morning they entered the temple courts and taught the people. The high priest and his officials, unaware of their supernatural release from prison, convened the members of the supreme council. They sent for the apostles to be brought to them from prison." 
Acts5:22 But when the officers came to the prison cell, it was empty! They returned to the council and informed them," 
Acts5:23 “We found the jail securely locked and the guards standing by their cell, but when we opened the door, there was no one inside!”" 
Acts5:24 When the captain of the temple guard and the leading priests heard this report, they were perplexed and at a loss over what to make of it." 
Acts5:25 Someone came and informed them, “The men you put in prison are out there standing in the temple courts, teaching the people!”" 
Acts5:26 So the captain of the temple guard and his officers went to arrest them once again, but without using force, for they were afraid the people would stone them." 
Acts5:27 When they brought them before the council, the high priest demanded an explanation," 
Acts5:28 saying, “Didn’t we strictly warn you that you were to never again teach in this name? But instead you have now filled all of Jerusalem with this doctrine and are committed to holding us responsible for this man’s death!”" 
Acts5:29 Peter and the apostles replied, “We must listen to and obey God more than pleasing religious leaders." 
Acts5:30 You had Jesus arrested and killed by crucifixion, but the God of our forefathers has raised him up." 
Acts5:31 He’s the one God has exalted and seated at his right hand as our Savior and Champion. He is the provider of grace as the Redeemer of Israel. 
Acts5:32 We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God freely gives to all who believe in him.”" 
Acts5:33 When they heard this, they were infuriated and determined to murder them." 
Acts5:34 But a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a noted religious professor who was highly respected by all, stood up. He gave orders to send the apostles outside." 
Acts5:35 Then he said to the council, “Men of Israel, you need to be very careful about how you deal with these men." 
Acts5:36 Some time ago there was a man named Theudas who rose up claiming to be somebody. He had a following of about four hundred men, but when he was killed, all of his followers were scattered, and nothing came of it." 
Acts5:37 “After him, in the days of the census, another man rose up, Judas the Galilean, who got people to follow him in a revolt. He too perished, and all those who followed him were scattered." 
Acts5:38 So in this situation, you should just leave these men to themselves. For if this plan or undertaking originates with men, it will fade away and come to nothing." 
Acts5:39 But if this movement is of God, you won’t be able to stop it. And you might discover that you were fighting God all along!” Gamaliel’s words convinced the council." 
Acts5:40 So they brought the apostles back in and had them severely beaten. They ordered them never again to speak in the name of Jesus and then let them go. 
Acts5:41 The apostles left there rejoicing, thrilled that God had considered them worthy to suffer disgrace for the name of Jesus." 
Acts5:42 And nothing stopped them! They kept preaching every day in the temple courts and went from house to house, preaching the gospel of Jesus, God’s Anointed One!" 
Acts6:1 During those days the number of Jesus’ followers kept multiplying greatly. But a complaint was brought against those who spoke Aramaic by the Greek-speaking Jews, who felt their widows were being overlooked during the daily distribution of food." 
Acts6:2 The twelve apostles called a meeting of all the believers and told them, “It is not advantageous for us to be pulled away from the word of God to wait on tables." 
Acts6:3 We want you to carefully select from among yourselves seven godly men. Make sure they are honorable, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, and we will give them the responsibility of this crucial ministry of serving." 
Acts6:4 That will enable us to give our full attention to prayer and preaching the word of God.” 
Acts6:5 Everyone in the church loved this idea. So they chose seven men. One of them was Stephen, who was known as a man full of faith and overflowing with the Holy Spirit. Along with him they chose Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicholas from Antioch, who had converted to Judaism." 
Acts6:6 All seven stood before the apostles, who laid their hands on them and prayed for them, commissioning them to this ministry." 
Acts6:7 God’s word reigned supreme and kept spreading. The number of Jesus’ followers in Jerusalem quickly grew and increased by the day. Even a great number of Jewish priests became believers and were obedient to the faith! 
Acts6:8 Stephen, who was a man full of grace and supernatural power, performed many astonishing signs and wonders and mighty miracles among the people." 
Acts6:9 This upset some men belonging to a sect who called themselves the Men Set Free. They were Libyans, Egyptians, and Turks. They all confronted Stephen to argue with him." 
Acts6:10 But the Holy Spirit gave Stephen remarkable wisdom to answer them. His words were prompted by the Holy Spirit, and they could not refute what he said." 
Acts6:11 So the Men Set Free conspired in secret to find those who would bring false accusations against Stephen and lie about him by saying, “We heard this man speak blasphemy against Moses and God.”" 
Acts6:12 The Men Set Free agitated the crowd, the elders, and the religious scholars, then seized Stephen and forcefully took him before the supreme council." 
Acts6:13 One after another, false witnesses stepped forward and accused Stephen, saying, “This man never stops denigrating our temple and our Jewish law." 
Acts6:14 For we have heard him teach that Jesus of Nazareth will destroy the temple and change the traditions and customs that Moses handed down to us.” 
Acts6:15 Every member of the supreme council focused his gaze on Stephen, for right in front of their eyes, while being falsely accused, his face glowed as though he had the face of an angel!" 
Acts7:1 The high priest asked, “Are these accusations true?”" 
Acts7:2 Stephen replied, “My fellow Jews and fathers, listen to me. The God of glory appeared to our ancestor Abraham while he was living in Iraq and before he moved to Haran in Syria." 
Acts7:3 God said to him, ‘Go! Leave behind your country and your relatives. Begin your journey and come to the land that I will show you.’" 
Acts7:4 “So Abraham left southeastern Iraq and began his journey. He settled in Haran and stayed there until his father passed away. Then God had him move to the land of Israel with only a promise. 
Acts7:5 Although God gave him no parcel of land he could call his own, not even a footprint, yet he promised Abraham that he and his descendants would one day have it all. And even though as yet Abraham had no child," 
Acts7:6 God spoke with him and gave him this promise: ‘Your descendants will live in a foreign land with a people who will make slaves of them and oppress them for four hundred years. 
Acts7:7 But I will judge the nation that enslaves them, and your descendants will be set free to return to this land to serve and worship me.’" 
Acts7:8 “Then God entered into covenant with Abraham, which included the requirement of circumcision. So when he became the father of Isaac, he circumcised him eight days after his birth." 
Acts7:9 “Isaac then became the father of Jacob, who was the father of our twelve patriarchs. Jacob’s sons became jealous of their brother Joseph and sold him to be a slave in Egypt. But God’s favor and blessing rested upon Joseph, and in time," 
Acts7:10 God rescued him from all his oppression and granted him extraordinary favor before Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Pharaoh appointed him as the overseer of his nation and even of his own palace." 
Acts7:11 “Then a devastating famine came over all of Egypt and Canaan, bringing great misery to the people, including our ancestors, who couldn’t find food." 
Acts7:12 But when Jacob learned that there was food in Egypt, he sent his sons, our ancestors, on their first trip to purchase grain for their family." 
Acts7:13 On their second trip to Egypt, Joseph revealed his identity to his brothers, and because of this, Pharaoh learned about Joseph’s family and where he came from." 
Acts7:14 “Joseph sent for his father, Jacob, and his entire family, a total of seventy-five people, to come and reside in Egypt." 
Acts7:15 Eventually, Jacob died there, along with all of his sons, our forefathers." 
Acts7:16 Their bones were later carried back to the promised land and buried in Shechem, in the tomb Abraham had purchased for a sum of money from the sons of Hamor." 
Acts7:17 “The time drew near for God to fulfill the prophetic promise he had made to Abraham. Our Jewish people had increased greatly in number, multiplying many times over while in Egypt." 
Acts7:18 “Another king, who had forgotten how Joseph had made their nation great, arose to rule over Egypt." 
Acts7:19 He was an abusive king who exploited our people with his smooth talk. With cruelty he forced our ancestors to give up their little boys as he committed infanticide! 
Acts7:20 “Then Moses came on the scene—a child of divine beauty. His parents hid him from Pharaoh as long as they could to spare his life. After three months they could conceal him no longer," 
Acts7:21 so they had to abandon him to his fate. But God arranged that Pharaoh’s daughter would find him, take him home, and raise him as her own son." 
Acts7:22 So Moses was fully trained in the royal courts and educated in the highest wisdom Egypt had to offer, until he arose as a powerful prince and an eloquent orator." 
Acts7:23 “When Moses turned forty, his heart was stirred for his people, the Israelites." 
Acts7:24 One day he saw one of our people being violently mistreated, so he came to his rescue, and with his own hands Moses murdered the abusive Egyptian." 
Acts7:25 Moses hoped that when the people realized how he had rescued one of their own, they would recognize him as their deliverer. How wrong he was!" 
Acts7:26 The next day he came upon two of our people engaged in a fist fight, and he tried to break it up by saying, ‘Men, you are brothers! Why would you want to hurt each other?’" 
Acts7:27 “But the perpetrator pushed Moses aside and said, ‘Who do you think you are? Who appointed you to be our ruler and judge?" 
Acts7:28 Are you going to kill me like you did the Egyptian yesterday?’ 
Acts7:29 “Shaken by this, Moses fled Egypt and lived as an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons." 
Acts7:30 After forty years had passed, while he was in the desert near Mount Sinai, the Messenger of Yahweh appeared to him in the midst of a flaming thorn bush." 
Acts7:31 Moses was astonished and stunned by what he was seeing, so he drew closer to observe this marvel. Then the Lord Yahweh spoke to him out of the flames:" 
Acts7:32 ‘I am the living God, the God of your ancestors. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.’ “Trembling in God’s presence and overwhelmed with awe, Moses didn’t even dare to look into the fire." 
Acts7:33 “Out of the flames the Lord Yahweh said to him: ‘Take the sandals off your feet, for you are standing in the realm of holiness." 
Acts7:34 I have watched and seen how my people have been mistreated in Egypt. I have heard their painful groaning, and now I have come down to set them free. So come to me, Moses, for I am sending you to Egypt to represent me.’" 
Acts7:35 “So God sent back to Egypt the man our people rejected and refused to recognize by saying, ‘Who appointed you to be our ruler and judge?’ God sent this man back to be their ruler and deliverer, commissioned with the power of the messenger who appeared to him in the flaming thorn bush." 
Acts7:36 This man brought the people out from their Egyptian bondage with many astonishing wonders and miracle signs—miracles in Egypt, miracles at the Red Sea, and miracles during their forty-year journey through the wilderness." 
Acts7:37 This is the same Moses who said to our ancestors, ‘The Lord God will raise up one from among you who will be a prophet to you, like I have been. Listen to everything he will say!’" 
Acts7:38 “Moses led the congregation in the wilderness and he spoke face-to-face with the angel who spoke with him on the top of Mount Sinai. Along with our ancestors, he received the living oracles of God that were passed down to us." 
Acts7:39 But our forefathers refused to obey. They pushed him away, and their hearts longed to return to Egypt." 
Acts7:40 “While Moses was on the mountain, our forefathers said to Aaron, ‘Make us gods to lead us, because we don’t know what has become of this Moses who brought us out of Egypt.’" 
Acts7:41 “So they made a god, an idol in the form of a bull calf. They offered sacrifices to it and celebrated with delight what their own hands had made." 
Acts7:42 “When God saw what they had done, he turned away from them and handed them over to the worship of the stars of heaven, as recorded in the prophetic writings: ‘People of Israel, you failed to worship me when you offered animal sacrifices for forty years in the wilderness." 
Acts7:43 Instead you worshiped the god Moloch, and you carried his tabernacle, not mine. You worshiped your star-god, Rephan. You made idols with your hands and worshiped them instead of me. So now I will cast you into exile beyond Babylon.’" 
Acts7:44 “God gave Moses the revelation of the pattern of the tabernacle of the testimony. By God’s command, he made it exactly according to the specifications given to him for our ancestors in the wilderness." 
Acts7:45 The next generation received possession of it, and under Joshua’s leadership they took possession of the land of the nations, which God drove out in front of them. The tabernacle was carried about until" 
Acts7:46 David found loving favor with God and prayed for a dwelling place for the God of Jacob," 
Acts7:47 but it was Solomon who built him a house. 
Acts7:48 “However, the Most High God does not live in temples made by human hands, as the prophet said:" 
Acts7:49 ‘Heaven is my throne room and the earth is but a footstool for my feet. How could you possibly build a house that could contain me?’ says the Lord Yahweh. ‘And where could you find a place where I could live? 
Acts7:50 Don’t you know that it is my hands that have built my house, not yours?’" 
Acts7:51 “Why would you be so stubborn as to close your hearts and your ears to me? You are always opposing the Holy Spirit, just like your forefathers!" 
Acts7:52 Which prophet was not persecuted and murdered by your ancestors? Name just one! They killed them all—even the ones who prophesied long ago of the coming of the Righteous One! Now you follow in their steps and have become his betrayers and murderers. 
Acts7:53 You have been given the law by the visitation of angels, but you have not obeyed it.”" 
Acts7:54 When they heard these things, they were overtaken with violent rage filling their souls, and they gnashed their teeth at him." 
Acts7:55 But Stephen, overtaken with great faith, was full of the Holy Spirit. He fixed his gaze into the heavenly realm and saw the glory and splendor of God—and Jesus, who stood up at the right hand of God." 
Acts7:56 “Look!” Stephen said. “I can see the heavens opening and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God to welcome me home!” 
Acts7:57 His accusers covered their ears with their hands and screamed at the top of their lungs to drown out his voice. 
Acts7:58 Then they pounced on him and threw him outside the city walls to stone him. His accusers, one by one, placed their outer garments at the feet of a young man named Saul of Tarsus." 
Acts7:59 As they hurled stone after stone at him, Stephen prayed, “Our Lord Jesus, accept my spirit into your presence.”" 
Acts7:60 He crumpled to his knees and shouted in a loud voice, “Our Lord, don’t hold this sin against them.” And then he died." 
Acts8:1 Now, Saul agreed to be an accomplice to Stephen’s stoning and participated in his execution. From that day on, a great persecution of the church in Jerusalem began. All the believers scattered into the countryside of Judea and among the Samaritans, except the apostles who remained behind in Jerusalem." 
Acts8:1 Now, Saul agreed to be an accomplice to Stephen’s stoning and participated in his execution. From that day on, a great persecution of the church in Jerusalem began. All the believers scattered into the countryside of Judea and among the Samaritans, except the apostles who remained behind in Jerusalem." 
Acts8:2 God-fearing men gave Stephen a proper burial and mourned greatly over his death. 
Acts8:3 Then Saul mercilessly persecuted the church of God, going from house to house into the homes of believers to arrest both men and women and drag them off to prison." 
Acts8:4 Although the believers were scattered by persecution, they preached the wonderful news of the word of God wherever they went." 
Acts8:5 Philip traveled to a Samaritan city and preached to them the wonderful news of the Anointed One. 
Acts8:6 The crowds were eager to receive Philip’s message and were persuaded by the many miracles and wonders he performed. 
Acts8:7 Many demon-possessed people were set free and delivered as evil spirits came out of them with loud screams and shrieks, and many who were lame and paralyzed were also healed." 
Acts8:8 This resulted in an uncontainable joy filling the city! 
Acts8:9 Now, there was a man who lived there who was steeped in sorcery. For some time he had astounded the people of Samaria with his magic, boasting to be someone great." 
Acts8:10 Everyone, from the least to the greatest among them, was dazzled by his sorcery, saying, “This man is the greatest wizard of all! The divine power of God walks among us!”" 
Acts8:11 For many years everyone was in awe of him because of his astonishing displays of the magic arts. 
Acts8:12 But as Philip preached the wonderful news of God’s kingdom realm, and the name of Jesus the Anointed One, many believed his message and were baptized, both men and women." 
Acts8:13 Even Simon believed and was baptized! Wherever Philip went, Simon was right by his side, astounded by all the miracles, signs, and enormous displays of power that he witnessed." 
Acts8:14 When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that the Samaritans had accepted God’s message of life, they sent Peter and John" 
Acts8:14 When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that the Samaritans had accepted God’s message of life, they sent Peter and John" 
Acts8:15 to pray over them so that they would receive the Holy Spirit. 
Acts8:16 For they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus and were yet to have the Holy Spirit fall upon them. 
Acts8:17 As soon as Peter and John arrived, they laid their hands on the Samaritan believers, one after another, and the Holy Spirit fell and filled each one of them!" 
Acts8:17 As soon as Peter and John arrived, they laid their hands on the Samaritan believers, one after another, and the Holy Spirit fell and filled each one of them!" 
Acts8:18 When Simon saw how the Holy Spirit was released through the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he approached them and offered them money," 
Acts8:19 saying, “I want this power too. I’m willing to pay you for the anointing that you have, so that I also can lay my hands on everyone to receive the Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts8:20 Peter rebuked him and said, “Your money will go with you to destruction! How could you even think that you could purchase God’s supernatural gift with money?" 
Acts8:21 You will never have this gift or take part in this ministry, for your heart is not right with God." 
Acts8:22 Repent this moment for allowing such wickedness to fill you. Plead with the Lord that perhaps he would forgive you the treachery of your heart. 
Acts8:23 For I discern that jealous envy has poisoned you and binds you as a captive to sin.” 
Acts8:24 Simon begged, “Peter, please pray to God for me. Plead with him so that nothing you just said over me may come to pass!”" 
Acts8:25 After Peter and John had testified and taught the word of God in that city, they returned to Jerusalem, stopping at many Samaritan villages along the way to preach the hope of the gospel." 
Acts8:25 After Peter and John had testified and taught the word of God in that city, they returned to Jerusalem, stopping at many Samaritan villages along the way to preach the hope of the gospel." 
Acts8:26 Then the Lord’s angel said to Philip, “Now go south from Jerusalem on the desert road to Gaza.”" 
Acts8:27 He left immediately on his assignment. Along the way he encountered an Ethiopian who believed in the God of the Jews, who was the minister of finance for Candace, queen of Ethiopia. He was on his way home from worshiping God in Jerusalem." 
Acts8:28 As he rode along in his chariot, he was reading from the scroll of Isaiah." 
Acts8:29 The Holy Spirit said to Philip, “Go and walk alongside the chariot.”" 
Acts8:30 So Philip ran to catch up. As he drew closer he overheard the man reading from the scroll of Isaiah the prophet. Philip asked him, “Sir, do you understand what you’re reading?”" 
Acts8:31 The man answered, “How can I possibly make sense of this without someone explaining it to me?” So he invited Philip up into his chariot to sit with him." 
Acts8:32 The portion from Isaiah he was reading was this: He was led away to the slaughter like a lamb to be offered. He was like a lamb that is silent before those who sheared him— he never even opened his mouth. 
Acts8:33 In his lowliness justice was stripped away from him. And who could fully express his struggles? For his life was taken from the earth. 
Acts8:34 The Ethiopian asked Philip, “Please, can you tell me who the prophet is speaking of? Is it himself or another man?”" 
Acts8:35 Philip started with this passage and shared with him the wonderful message of Jesus. 
Acts8:36 As they were traveling down the road, the man said, “Look, here’s a pool of water. Why don’t I get baptized right now?”" 
Acts8:37 Philip replied, “If you believe with all your heart, I’ll baptize you.” The man answered, “I believe that Jesus is the Anointed One, the Son of God.”" 
Acts8:38 The Ethiopian stopped his chariot, and they went down into the water and Philip baptized him." 
Acts8:39 When they came up out of the water, Philip was suddenly snatched up by the Spirit of the Lord and instantly carried away to the city of Ashdod, where he reappeared, preaching the gospel in that city. The man never saw Philip again. He returned to Ethiopia full of great joy. Philip, however, traveled on to all of the towns of that region, bringing them the good news, until he arrived at Caesarea." 
Acts8:40  
Acts9:1 During those days, Saul, full of angry threats and rage, wanted to murder the disciples of the Lord Jesus. So he went to ask the high priest" 
Acts9:2 and requested a letter of authorization he could take to the Jewish leaders in Damascus, requesting their cooperation in finding and arresting any who were followers of the Way. Saul wanted to capture all of the believers he found, both men and women, and drag them as prisoners back to Jerusalem." 
Acts9:3 So he obtained the authorization and left for Damascus. Just outside the city, a brilliant light flashing from heaven suddenly exploded all around him." 
Acts9:4 Falling to the ground, he heard a booming voice say to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?”" 
Acts9:5 The men accompanying Saul were stunned and speechless, for they heard a heavenly voice but could see no one. Saul replied, “Who are you, Lord?” “I am Jesus, the Victorious, the one you are persecuting. Now, get up and go into the city, where you will be told what you are to do.”" 
Acts9:6  
Acts9:7  
Acts9:8 Saul stood to his feet, and even though his eyes were open he could see nothing—he was blind. So the men had to take him by the hand and lead him into Damascus." 
Acts9:9 For three days he didn’t eat or drink and couldn’t see a thing. 
Acts9:10 Living in Damascus was a believer named Ananias. The Lord spoke to him in a vision, calling his name. “Ananias.” “Yes, Lord,” Ananias answered." 
Acts9:11 The Lord said, “Go at once to the street called Abundance and look for a man from Tarsus named Saul. You will find him at Judah’s house. While he was praying, he saw in a supernatural vision a man named Ananias coming to lay hands upon him to restore his sight.”" 
Acts9:12  
Acts9:13 “But Lord,” Ananias replied, “many have told me about his terrible persecution of those in Jerusalem who are devoted to you." 
Acts9:14 In fact, the high priest has authorized him to seize and imprison all those in Damascus who call on your name.”" 
Acts9:15 The Lord Yahweh answered him, “Arise and go! I have chosen this man to be my special messenger. He will be brought before kings, before many nations, and before the Jewish people to give them the revelation of who I am." 
Acts9:16 And I will show him how much he is destined to suffer because of his passion for me.” 
Acts9:17 Ananias left and found the house where Saul was staying. He went inside and laid hands on him, saying, “Saul, my brother, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me to pray for you so that you might see again and be filled to overflowing with the Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts9:18 All at once, the crusty substance that was over Saul’s eyes disappeared and he could see perfectly. Immediately, he got up and was baptized." 
Acts9:19 After eating a meal, his strength returned." 
Acts9:20 Within the hour he was in the synagogues, preaching about Jesus and proclaiming, “Jesus is the Son of God!”" 
Acts9:21 Those who heard him were astonished, saying among themselves, “Isn’t this the Saul who furiously persecuted those in Jerusalem who called on the name of Jesus? Didn’t he come here with permission from the high priest to drag them off and take them as prisoners?”" 
Acts9:22 Saul’s power increased greatly as he became more and more proficient in proving that Jesus was the anointed Messiah. Saul remained there for several days with the disciples, even though it agitated the Jews of Damascus." 
Acts9:23 As time passed, the Jews plotted together to kill Saul," 
Acts9:24 but it was revealed to him what they were about to do. They closely guarded the gates of the city and tracked his every movement so they could kill him. 
Acts9:25 But during the night, some of Saul’s converts helped him escape by lowering him down through an opening in the wall, hiding him in a woven basket." 
Acts9:26 When Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he attempted to introduce himself to the fellowship of the believers, but everyone was afraid of him because they doubted he was a true disciple." 
Acts9:27 Barnabas came to his defense and brought him before the apostles. Saul shared with them his supernatural experience of seeing the Lord, who spoke with him on the road to Damascus. Barnabas also told them how boldly Saul preached throughout the city in Jesus’ mighty name." 
Acts9:28 Then they accepted him as a brother and he remained with them, joining them wherever they went in Jerusalem, boldly preaching in the power and authority of Jesus." 
Acts9:29 He openly debated with some of the Jews who had adopted the Greek culture, yet they were secretly plotting to murder him." 
Acts9:30 When the believers discovered their scheme, they smuggled him out of the city and took him to Caesarea and then sent him on to Tarsus." 
Acts9:31 After this, the church all over Judea, Galilee, and Samaria experienced a season of peace. The congregations grew larger and larger, with the believers being empowered and encouraged by the Holy Spirit. They worshiped God in wonder and awe, and walked in the fear of the Lord." 
Acts9:31 After this, the church all over Judea, Galilee, and Samaria experienced a season of peace. The congregations grew larger and larger, with the believers being empowered and encouraged by the Holy Spirit. They worshiped God in wonder and awe, and walked in the fear of the Lord." 
Acts9:32 As Peter was ministering from place to place, he visited God’s devoted ones in the village of Lydda." 
Acts9:33 He met a man there named Aeneas who had been paralyzed and bedridden for eight years. 
Acts9:34 Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus the Anointed One instantly and divinely heals you. Now, get up and make your bed.”" 
Acts9:35 All at once he stood to his feet. And when all the people of Lydda and Sharon saw him, they became believers in the Lord." 
Acts9:36 Now, there was a follower of Jesus who lived in Joppa. Her Aramaic name, Tabitha, means “gazelle.” She lived her life doing kind things for others and serving the poor." 
Acts9:37 But then she became very ill and died. After the disciples prepared her body for burial, they laid her in an upstairs room." 
Acts9:38 When the believers heard that Peter was nearby in Lydda, they sent two men with an urgent message for him to come without delay." 
Acts9:39 So Peter went with them back to Joppa, and upon arriving they led him to the upper room. There were many widows standing next to Peter, weeping. One after another showed him the tunics and other garments that Tabitha had made to bless others." 
Acts9:40 Peter made them all leave the room. Then he knelt down and prayed. Turning to the dead body, he said, “Tabitha, rise up!” At once she opened her eyes, and seeing Peter, she sat up." 
Acts9:41 He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet. Then he called for the believers and all the widows to come and see that she was alive! 
Acts9:42 The news spread all over the city of Joppa, and many believed in the Lord." 
Acts9:43 Peter remained in Joppa for several more days as a guest at the house of Simon the tanner. 
Acts10:1 At that time there was a Roman military officer, Cornelius, who was in charge of one hundred men stationed in Caesarea. He was the captain of the Italian regiment," 
Acts10:2 a devout man of extraordinary character who worshiped God and prayed regularly, together with all his family. He also had a heart for the poor and gave generously to help them." 
Acts10:3 One afternoon about three o’clock, he had an open vision and saw the angel of God appear right in front of him, calling out his name, “Cornelius!”" 
Acts10:4 Startled, he was overcome with fear by the sight of the angel. He asked, “What do you want, Lord?” The angel said, “All of your prayers and your generosity to the poor have ascended before God as an eternal offering." 
Acts10:5 Now, send some men to Joppa at once. Have them find a man named Simon the Rock," 
Acts10:6 who is staying as a guest in the home of Simon the tanner, whose house is by the sea.”" 
Acts10:7 After the angel left, Cornelius called for two of his servants and a trusted, godly soldier who was his personal attaché." 
Acts10:8 He explained to them everything that had just happened and sent them off to Joppa. 
Acts10:9 The next day around noon, as Cornelius’ men were approaching Joppa, Peter went up to the flat roof of the house to pray." 
Acts10:10 He was hungry and wanted to eat, but while lunch was being prepared he fell into a trance and entered into another realm." 
Acts10:11 As the heavenly realm opened up, he saw something resembling a large linen tablecloth that descended from above, being let down to the earth by its four corners." 
Acts10:12 As it floated down he saw that it held many kinds of four-footed animals, reptiles, and wild birds." 
Acts10:13 A voice said to him, “Peter, go and prepare them to be eaten.”" 
Acts10:14 Peter replied, “There’s no way I could do that, Lord, for I’ve never eaten anything forbidden or impure according to our Jewish laws.”" 
Acts10:15 The voice spoke again. “Nothing is unclean if God declares it to be clean.” 
Acts10:16 The vision was repeated three times. Then suddenly the linen sheet was snatched back up into heaven. 
Acts10:17 Peter was so stunned by the vision that he couldn’t stop wondering about what all it meant. Meanwhile, Cornelius’ men had learned where Peter was staying and at that same moment were standing outside the gate." 
Acts10:18 They called out to those in the house, “Is this where Simon, the Rock, is staying?”" 
Acts10:19 As Peter was in deep thought, trying to interpret the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Go downstairs now, for three men are looking for you. Don’t hesitate to go with them, because I have sent them.”" 
Acts10:20  
Acts10:21 Peter went downstairs to the men and said, “I believe I’m the one you’re looking for. What brings you here?”" 
Acts10:22 They answered, “We serve Cornelius, a Roman military captain, who sent us to find you. He is a devout man of the highest integrity who worships God and is respected throughout the Jewish community. He was divinely instructed through the appearance of an angel to summon you to his home and to listen to the message that you would bring him.”" 
Acts10:23 Peter invited them to stay for the night as his guests. The next morning they departed, accompanied by some of the believers from Joppa." 
Acts10:24 The next day they arrived in Caesarea, where Cornelius was waiting anxiously for them and had gathered together all of his relatives and close friends." 
Acts10:25 The moment Peter walked in the door, Cornelius fell at his feet to worship him." 
Acts10:26 But Peter pulled him to his feet and said, “Stand up, for I’m only a man and no different from you.”" 
Acts10:27 They talked together and then went inside, where Peter found a large gathering waiting to hear his words." 
Acts10:28 Peter said to them, “You all know that it is against the Jewish laws for me to associate with or even visit the home of one who is not a Jew. Yet God has shown me that I should never view anyone as inferior or ritually unclean." 
Acts10:29 So when you sent for me, I came without objection. Now, may I ask why you sent for me?”" 
Acts10:30 Cornelius replied, “Four days ago I was fasting and praying here in my home at this very hour, three o’clock in the afternoon, when a man in glistening clothing suddenly appeared in front of my eyes." 
Acts10:31 He said, ‘Cornelius, God has heard your prayers. Your generosity to the poor has been recorded and remembered in God’s presence." 
Acts10:32 However, you must send for a man named Simon, the Rock, who is staying in Joppa as a guest of Simon the tanner, who lives by the sea.’" 
Acts10:33 So I immediately sent my men to bring you here—and you were kind enough to come. And now, here we are, all of us in God’s presence, anxious to hear the message that God has put into your heart to share with us.”" 
Acts10:34 Peter said, “Now I know for certain that God doesn’t show favoritism with people but treats everyone on the same basis." 
Acts10:35 It makes no difference what race of people one belongs to. If they show deep reverence for God, and are committed to doing what’s right, they are acceptable before him." 
Acts10:36 God sent his word to the Jewish people first, announcing the wonderful news of hope and peace through Jesus, the Anointed One, the Lord of all." 
Acts10:37 You are well aware of all that began in Galilee and spread throughout the land of Israel immediately after John preached his message of baptism. 
Acts10:37 You are well aware of all that began in Galilee and spread throughout the land of Israel immediately after John preached his message of baptism. 
Acts10:38 “Jesus of Nazareth was anointed by God with the Holy Spirit and with great power. He did wonderful things for others and divinely healed all who were under the tyranny of the devil, for God had anointed him." 
Acts10:39 We apostles were eyewitnesses to all the miracles that he performed throughout the land of Israel. Finally, in Jerusalem, he was crucified on a cross," 
Acts10:40 but God raised him from the dead three days later, allowing him to be seen openly." 
Acts10:41 He didn’t appear to everyone, but he appeared to us, his chosen witnesses. He actually ate and drank with us after he rose from the dead!" 
Acts10:42 “Jesus ordered us to preach and warn the people that God had appointed him to be the judge of the living and the dead. 
Acts10:43 And not only us, but all of the prophets agree in their writings that everyone who believes in him receives complete forgiveness of sins through the power of his name.”" 
Acts10:44 While Peter was speaking, the Holy Spirit cascaded over all those listening to his message." 
Acts10:45 The Jewish brothers who had accompanied Peter were astounded that the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out on people who weren’t Jews," 
Acts10:46 for they heard them speaking in supernaturally given languages and passionately praising God. 
Acts10:47 Peter said, “How could anyone object to these people being baptized? For they have received the Holy Spirit just as we have.”" 
Acts10:48 So he instructed them to be baptized in the power of the name of Jesus, the Anointed One. After their baptism, they asked Peter to stay with them for a few more days." 
Acts11:1 The news traveled fast and soon reached the apostles and the believers living in Judea that non-Jewish people were also receiving God’s message of new life. 
Acts11:1 The news traveled fast and soon reached the apostles and the believers living in Judea that non-Jewish people were also receiving God’s message of new life. 
Acts11:2 When Peter finally arrived in Jerusalem, the Jewish believers called him to task, saying," 
Acts11:3 “Why did you stay in the home of people who aren’t Jewish? You even ate your meals with them!” 
Acts11:4 Peter explained what had happened, saying," 
Acts11:5 “One day when I was in the city of Joppa, while I was praying I fell into an ecstatic trance and I went into another realm. I saw in a vision something like a linen tablecloth descending out of heaven, being let down by its four corners, and it got close to me." 
Acts11:6 As I examined it I saw many four-footed animals, wild animals, reptiles, and wild birds." 
Acts11:7 Then I heard a voice say to me, ‘Get up, Peter. Kill and eat them.’" 
Acts11:8 “I said, ‘I can’t do that, Lord! For I’ve never eaten anything that is forbidden or impure according to our Jewish laws.’" 
Acts11:9 “The voice spoke to me again, saying, ‘Nothing is unclean if God declares it to be clean.’" 
Acts11:10 “The vision repeated itself three times. Then suddenly the linen sheet was snatched back up into heaven. 
Acts11:11 At that moment three men from Caesarea, who had been sent for me, approached the house where I was staying." 
Acts11:12 The Spirit told me to accompany them with no questions asked. These six brothers here with me made the trip, and we entered into the home of the man who had sent for me." 
Acts11:13 He shared with us about the angel who appeared to him and told him to send messengers to Joppa to find Simon, the Rock. The angel had told him," 
Acts11:14 ‘He will tell you and your family the message of how you can be saved!’ 
Acts11:15 “Shortly after I began to speak, the Holy Spirit was poured out upon them, just like what happened to us at the beginning." 
Acts11:16 And I remembered the words the Lord had told us: ‘John immersed you in water, but you will be immersed in the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts11:16 And I remembered the words the Lord had told us: ‘John immersed you in water, but you will be immersed in the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts11:17 So I concluded that if God is pleased to give them the same gift of the Holy Spirit that he gave us after they believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who am I to stand in the way of God?”" 
Acts11:18 When they heard this, their objections were put to rest and they all glorified God, saying, “Look what God has done! He’s giving the gift of repentance that leads to life to people who aren’t even Jews.”" 
Acts11:19 Because of the persecution triggered by Stephen’s death in Jerusalem, many of the believers were scattered. Some reached as far as the coast of Lebanon, the island of Cyprus, and Antioch of Syria, but they were still only preaching the word to Jews." 
Acts11:20 However, some of the believers from Cyprus and Cyrene, who had come to Antioch in Syria, preached to the non-Jews living there, proclaiming the message of salvation in the Lord Jesus." 
Acts11:21 The mighty power of the Lord was with them as they ministered, and a large number of people believed and turned their hearts to the Lord." 
Acts11:22 News of what was happening in Antioch reached the church of Jerusalem, so the apostles sent Barnabas to Antioch as their emissary." 
Acts11:23 When he got there and witnessed for himself God’s marvelous grace, he was enthused and overjoyed. He encouraged the believers to remain faithful and cling to the Lord with passionate hearts." 
Acts11:24 Barnabas was a good man, full of the Spirit of holiness, and he exuded a life of faith. Because of his ministry even more crowds of people were brought to the Lord!" 
Acts11:25 Barnabas left for Tarsus to find Saul and bring him back to Antioch. 
Acts11:26 Together Saul and Barnabas ministered there for a full year, equipping the growing church and teaching the vast number of new converts. It was in Antioch that the followers of Jesus were first revealed as “anointed ones.”" 
Acts11:27 At that time there were prophets in the church of Jerusalem, and some of them came to Antioch." 
Acts11:28 One of them, named Agabus, stood up in one of the meetings and prophesied by the Holy Spirit that a severe famine was about to come over Israel. (This prophecy was fulfilled during the reign of Claudius Caesar.)" 
Acts11:29 So they determined that each believer, according to his or her ability, would give an offering to send as relief to the brothers living in Judea." 
Acts11:29 So they determined that each believer, according to his or her ability, would give an offering to send as relief to the brothers living in Judea." 
Acts11:30 They set aside the gifts and entrusted the funds to Barnabas and Saul to take to the elders of the church in Jerusalem. 
Acts12:1 During this period King Herod incited persecution against the church, causing great harm to the believers." 
Acts12:2 He even had the apostle Jacob, John’s brother, beheaded." 
Acts12:2 He even had the apostle Jacob, John’s brother, beheaded." 
Acts12:3 When Herod realized how much this pleased the Jewish leaders, he had Peter arrested and thrown into prison during the Feast of Passover. Sixteen soldiers were assigned to guard him until Herod could bring him to public trial, immediately after the Passover celebrations were over." 
Acts12:4  
Acts12:5 The church went into a season of intense intercession, asking God to free him." 
Acts12:6 The night before Herod planned to bring him to trial, he made sure that Peter was securely bound with two chains. Peter was sound asleep between two soldiers, with additional guards stationed outside his cell door," 
Acts12:7 when all at once an angel of the Lord appeared, filling his prison cell with a brilliant light. The angel struck Peter on the side to awaken him and said, “Hurry up! Let’s go!” Instantly the chains fell off his wrists." 
Acts12:8 The angel told him, “Get dressed. Put on your sandals, bring your cloak, and follow me.”" 
Acts12:9 Peter quickly left the cell and followed the angel, even though he thought it was only a dream or a vision, for it seemed unreal—he couldn’t believe it was really happening!" 
Acts12:10 They walked unseen past the first guard post and then the second before coming to the iron gate that leads to the city—and the gate swung open all by itself right in front of them! They went out into the city and were walking down a narrow street when all of a sudden the angel disappeared. 
Acts12:11 That’s when Peter realized that he wasn’t having a dream! He said to himself, “This is really happening! The Lord sent his angel to rescue me from the clutches of Herod and from what the Jewish leaders planned to do to me.”" 
Acts12:12 When he realized this, he decided to go to the home of Mary and her son John Mark. The house was filled with people praying." 
Acts12:12 When he realized this, he decided to go to the home of Mary and her son John Mark. The house was filled with people praying." 
Acts12:12 When he realized this, he decided to go to the home of Mary and her son John Mark. The house was filled with people praying." 
Acts12:13 When he knocked on the door to the courtyard, a young servant girl named Rose got up to see who it was." 
Acts12:14 When she recognized Peter’s voice, she was so excited that she forgot to open the door, but ran back inside the house to announce, “Peter is standing outside!”" 
Acts12:15 “Are you crazy?” they said to her. But when she kept insisting, they answered, “Well, it must be his angel.”" 
Acts12:16 Meanwhile, Peter was still outside, knocking on the door. When they finally opened it, they were shocked to find Peter standing there." 
Acts12:17 He signaled for them to be quiet as he shared with them the miraculous way the Lord brought him out of prison. Before he left he said, “Make sure you let Jacob and all of the other believers know what has happened.”" 
Acts12:18 At the first sign of daylight, the prison guards were in a tremendous uproar because of Peter’s disappearance. Herod ordered a thorough search for him, but no one could find him." 
Acts12:19 After he interrogated the guards, he ordered them executed. Then Herod left the province of Judea for Caesarea and stayed there for a period of time." 
Acts12:19 After he interrogated the guards, he ordered them executed. Then Herod left the province of Judea for Caesarea and stayed there for a period of time." 
Acts12:20 Now, during those days, Herod was engaged in a violent dispute with the people of Tyre and Sidon. So they sent a united delegation to Caesarea to appeal to him and reconcile their differences with the king, for Herod controlled their food supply. First they enlisted the support of his trusted personal assistant, Blastus, who secured them an appointment with the king." 
Acts12:21 On the chosen day, Herod came before them, arrayed in his regal robes. Sitting on his elevated throne, he delivered a stirring public address to the people." 
Acts12:22 At its conclusion the people gave him a round of applause. The crowd shouted, “These are the words of a god, not a man!”" 
Acts12:23 Immediately, an angel of the Lord struck Herod with a sickness, an infestation of worms, because he accepted the people’s worship and didn’t give the glory to God, and he died." 
Acts12:24 But the hope of God’s kingdom kept spreading and multiplying everywhere! 
Acts12:25 After Barnabas and Saul had delivered the charitable offering for relief, they left Jerusalem, bringing with them a disciple named Mark (who was also known as John)." 
Acts12:25 After Barnabas and Saul had delivered the charitable offering for relief, they left Jerusalem, bringing with them a disciple named Mark (who was also known as John)." 
Acts12:25 After Barnabas and Saul had delivered the charitable offering for relief, they left Jerusalem, bringing with them a disciple named Mark (who was also known as John)." 
Acts13:1 In the church at Antioch there were a number of prophets and teachers of the Word, including Barnabas, Simeon from Niger, Lucius the Libyan, Manean (the childhood companion of King Herod Antipas), and Saul." 
Acts13:2 While they were worshiping as priests before the Lord in prayer and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, “I have called Barnabas and Saul to do an important work for me. Now, release them to go and fulfill it.”" 
Acts13:3 So after they had fasted and prayed, they laid hands on them and sent them off." 
Acts13:4 So Saul and Barnabas, and their assistant Mark (known as John), were directed by the Holy Spirit to go to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. When they arrived at Salamis, they went to the synagogues and declared the Word of God." 
Acts13:4 So Saul and Barnabas, and their assistant Mark (known as John), were directed by the Holy Spirit to go to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. When they arrived at Salamis, they went to the synagogues and declared the Word of God." 
Acts13:4 So Saul and Barnabas, and their assistant Mark (known as John), were directed by the Holy Spirit to go to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. When they arrived at Salamis, they went to the synagogues and declared the Word of God." 
Acts13:5  
Acts13:6 From there they crossed the island as far as Paphos, where they encountered a Jewish false prophet, a sorcerer named Elymas, who also went by the name of “son of Jesus.”" 
Acts13:7 He had gained influence as the spiritual advisor to the regional governor, Sergius Paulus, considered by many to be a wise and intelligent leader. The governor requested a meeting with Barnabas and Saul because he wanted to hear the message of God’s word." 
Acts13:8 But Elymas, whose name means “sorcerer,” stood up against them and tried to prevent the governor from believing their message." 
Acts13:9 Saul, also known as Paul, stared into his eyes and rebuked him. Filled with the Holy Spirit, he said," 
Acts13:10 “You son of the devil! You are full of every form of fraud and deceit and an enemy of all that is right. When will you stop perverting the truth of God into lies? 
Acts13:11 At this very moment the hand of God’s judgment comes down upon you and you will be blind—so blind you won’t even be able to see the light of the sun.” As Paul spoke these words, a shadowy mist and darkness came over the sorcerer, leaving him blind and groping about, begging someone to lead him around by the hand." 
Acts13:12 When the governor witnessed this, he believed and was awestruck by the power of the message of the Lord." 
Acts13:13 Paul and his companions sailed from the Cyprus port of Paphos to Perga in southern Turkey. John left them there and returned to Jerusalem 
Acts13:13 Paul and his companions sailed from the Cyprus port of Paphos to Perga in southern Turkey. John left them there and returned to Jerusalem 
Acts13:14 as they journeyed on to the city of Antioch in the region of Pisidia. On the Sabbath they went into the synagogue and took their seats. 
Acts13:15 After the reading from the scrolls of the books of Moses and the prophets, the leader of the meeting sent Paul and Barnabas a message, saying, “Brothers, do you have a word of encouragement to share with us? If so, please feel free to give it.”" 
Acts13:16 Paul stood and motioned that he had something to say. He said, “Listen, all of you Jews and non-Jews who worship God." 
Acts13:17 The God of Israel divinely chose our ancestors to be his people. While they were enslaved in Egypt, he made them great, both in numbers and in strength, until he unveiled his mighty power and led them out of bondage." 
Acts13:18 For nearly forty years, he nourished them in the wilderness." 
Acts13:19 He was the one who destroyed the seven nations inhabiting the land of Canaan and afterward gave the land to his people as their inheritance. 
Acts13:20 This took about four hundred and fifty years. “Then God raised up deliverers for the people until the time of the prophet Samuel. 
Acts13:21 The people craved for a king, so God gave them one from the tribe of Benjamin: Saul, the son of Kish, who ruled for forty years." 
Acts13:22 After removing him, God raised up David to be king, for God said of him, ‘I have found in David, son of Jesse, a man who always pursues my heart and will accomplish all that I have destined him to do.’" 
Acts13:23 “From David’s lineage God brought Israel a Savior, just as he promised." 
Acts13:24 So before Jesus appeared, John preached the message of a baptism of repentance to prepare all of Israel." 
Acts13:24 So before Jesus appeared, John preached the message of a baptism of repentance to prepare all of Israel." 
Acts13:25 As John was about to finish his mission, he said repeatedly, ‘If you think that I am the one to come, you’re mistaken. He will come after me, and I don’t even deserve to stoop down and untie his sandals!’" 
Acts13:25 As John was about to finish his mission, he said repeatedly, ‘If you think that I am the one to come, you’re mistaken. He will come after me, and I don’t even deserve to stoop down and untie his sandals!’" 
Acts13:26 “Fellow Jews, Abraham’s descendants, and all those among you who worship and reverence God, this message of life has been sent for us all to hear." 
Acts13:27 But the people of Jerusalem and their leaders didn’t realize who he was, nor did they understand the prophecies written of him. Yet they fulfilled those very prophecies, which they read week after week in their meetings, by condemning him to death." 
Acts13:28 Even though they could come up with no legal grounds for the death sentence, they pleaded with Pilate to have him executed." 
Acts13:29 And they did to him all that was prophesied they would do. “Then they took him down from the cross and laid him in a tomb. 
Acts13:30 But God raised him from the dead! 
Acts13:31 And for many days afterward he appeared on numerous occasions to his disciples who knew him well and had followed him from Galilee to Jerusalem. Those disciples are now his witnesses, telling the people the truth about him." 
Acts13:32 “So here we are to share with you some wonderful news! The promise God made to our forefathers 
Acts13:33 has now been fulfilled for us, their children. For God has raised Jesus from the dead, as it says in Psalms: ‘Today I reveal you as my Son, and I as your Father.’" 
Acts13:34 “God had promised to not let him decay in the tomb or face destruction again, so God raised him from the dead. He gave this promise in the Psalms: ‘I will give to you what I gave to David: Faithful mercies that you can trust.’" 
Acts13:35 “He explains it further in another Psalm: ‘You will not allow your holy one to experience bodily decay.’ 
Acts13:36 “This cannot be a reference to David, for after he passionately served God’s purpose for his generation, he died. He was buried with his ancestors and his body experienced decay." 
Acts13:37 But the one whom God raised from the dead has never experienced corruption in any form. 
Acts13:38 “So listen, friends! Through this Jesus, the forgiveness of sins is offered to you." 
Acts13:39 Everyone who believes in him is set free from sin and guilt—something the law of Moses had no power to do. 
Acts13:40 So be very careful that what the prophets warned about does not happen to you: 
Acts13:41 ‘Be amazed and in agony, you scoffers! For in your day I will do something so wonderful that when I perform mighty deeds among you, you won’t even believe that it was I who did it!’ ”" 
Acts13:42 As Paul and Barnabas started to leave, the people pleaded with them to share more about these things on the next Sabbath day." 
Acts13:43 When the meeting had finally broken up, many of those in attendance, both Jews and converts to Judaism, tagged along with Paul and Barnabas, who continued to persuade them to go deeper in their understanding of God’s grace." 
Acts13:44 The following week, nearly everyone in the city gathered to hear the word of God." 
Acts13:45 When the Jewish leaders saw the size of the crowds, vicious jealousy filled their hearts and they rose up to oppose what Paul was teaching. They insulted him and argued with him over everything he said." 
Acts13:46 Yet Paul and Barnabas did not back down. Filled with courage, they boldly replied, “We were compelled to bring God’s message first to you Jews. But seeing you’ve rejected this message and refuse to embrace eternal life, we will focus instead on the nations and offer it to them." 
Acts13:47 This will fulfill what the Lord has commanded us: ‘I have destined you to become a beacon light for the nations and release salvation to the ends of the earth!’ ” 
Acts13:48 When the non-Jewish people in the crowd heard these words, they were thrilled and they honored the word of the Lord. All who believed that they were destined to experience eternal life received the message." 
Acts13:49 God’s word spread like wildfire throughout the entire region. 
Acts13:50 The Jewish leaders stirred up a violent mob against Paul and Barnabas, including many prominent and wealthy people of the city. They persecuted them and ran them out of town." 
Acts13:51 As they left, they shook the dust off their feet as a sign of protest against them, and they went on to the city of Iconium." 
Acts13:52 They left the new converts in Antioch overflowing with the joy of the Holy Spirit. 
Acts14:1 When Paul and Barnabas arrived at Iconium, the same thing happened there. They went, as they always did, to the synagogue and preached to the people with such power that a large crowd of both Jews and non-Jews believed." 
Acts14:2 Some of the Jews refused to believe, and they began to poison the minds of the non-Jews to discredit the believers." 
Acts14:3 Yet Paul and Barnabas stayed there for a long time, preaching boldly and fearlessly about the Lord. Many trusted in the Lord, for he backed up his message of grace with miracles, signs, and wonders performed by the apostles." 
Acts14:4 The people of the city were split over the issue. Some sided with the apostles, and others with the Jews who refused to believe." 
Acts14:5 Eventually, all the opposition factions came together, with their leaders devising a plot to harm Paul and Barnabas and stone them to death." 
Acts14:6 When the apostles learned about this, they escaped to the region of Lyconia, to the cities of Lystra and Derbe and the nearby villages." 
Acts14:7 And they continued to preach the hope of the gospel. 
Acts14:8 In Lystra, Paul and Barnabas encountered a man who from birth had never walked, for he was crippled in his feet." 
Acts14:9 He listened carefully to Paul as he preached. All of a sudden, Paul discerned that this man had faith in his heart to be healed." 
Acts14:10 So he shouted, “You! In the name of our Lord Jesus, stand up on your feet!” The man instantly jumped to his feet, stood for the first time in his life, and walked!" 
Acts14:11 When the crowds saw the miracle Paul had done, they shouted in their own language, “The gods have come down to us as men!”" 
Acts14:12 They addressed Barnabas as “Zeus” and Paul as “Hermes,” because he was the spokesman." 
Acts14:13 Now, outside of the city stood the temple of Zeus. The priest of the temple, in order to honor Paul and Barnabas, brought bulls with wreaths of flowers draped on them to the gates of the courtyard where they were staying. The crowds clamored to offer them as sacrifices to the apostles. He even brought flower wreaths as crowns to place on their heads." 
Acts14:14 When the apostles understood what was happening, they were mortified and tore their clothes as a sign of dismay. They rushed into the crowd and shouted," 
Acts14:15 “People, what are you doing? We’re only weak human beings like everyone else. This is why we’ve come to tell you the good news, so that you would turn away from these worthless myths and turn to the living God. He is the Creator of all things: the earth, the heavens, the sea, and everything they contain." 
Acts14:16 In previous generations he allowed the nations to pursue their own ways," 
Acts14:17 yet he has never left himself without clear evidence of his goodness. For he blesses us with rain from heaven and seasons of fruitful harvests, and he nourishes us with food to meet our needs. He satisfies our lives, and euphoria fills our hearts.”" 
Acts14:18 Even after saying these things, they were barely able to restrain the people from offering sacrifices to them." 
Acts14:19 Some of the Jews who had opposed Paul and Barnabas in Antioch and Iconium arrived and stirred up the crowd against them. They stoned Paul and dragged his body outside the city and left him for dead. 
Acts14:20 When the believers encircled Paul’s body, he miraculously stood up! Paul stood and immediately went back into the city. The next day he left with Barnabas for Derbe." 
Acts14:21 After preaching the wonderful news of the gospel there and winning a large number of followers to Jesus, they retraced their steps and revisited Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch." 
Acts14:22 At each place they went, they strengthened the lives of the believers and encouraged them to go deeper in their faith. And they taught them, “It is necessary for us to enter into the realm of God’s kingdom, because that’s the only way we will endure our many trials and persecutions.”" 
Acts14:23 Paul and Barnabas ordained leaders, known as elders, from among the congregations in every church they visited. After prayer and fasting, they publicly committed them into the care and protection of the Lord of their faith." 
Acts14:24 After passing through different regions of central Turkey," 
Acts14:25 they went to the city of Perga, preaching the life-giving message of the Lord. Afterward they journeyed down to the coast at Antalya," 
Acts14:26 and from there they sailed back to Antioch. With their mission complete, they returned to the church where they had originally been sent out as missionaries, for it was in Antioch where they had been handed over to God’s powerful grace." 
Acts14:27 When they arrived in Antioch, they gathered the church together and shared with them all of the wonderful works God had done through them and how God had opened the door of faith for the non-Jews to enter in." 
Acts14:28 Afterward, Paul and Barnabas stayed there for a long time in fellowship with the believers." 
Acts15:1 While Paul and Barnabas were in Antioch, some false teachers came from Judea to trouble the believers. They taught, “Unless you are circumcised, as the law of Moses requires, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts15:1 While Paul and Barnabas were in Antioch, some false teachers came from Judea to trouble the believers. They taught, “Unless you are circumcised, as the law of Moses requires, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts15:2 This sparked a fierce argument between the false teachers and Paul and Barnabas. So the church appointed a delegation of believers, including Paul and Barnabas, to go to Jerusalem to meet with the apostles and elders of the church and resolve this issue." 
Acts15:3 So the church sent them on their way. As they passed through Lebanon and Samaria, they stopped to share with the believers how God was converting many from among the non-Jewish people. Hearing this report brought great joy to all the churches." 
Acts15:4 When they finally arrived in Jerusalem, Paul and Barnabas were welcomed by the church, the apostles, and the elders. They explained to them everything God had done among them." 
Acts15:5 But some of the believers who were of the religious group called “separated ones” were insistent, saying, “We must continue the custom of circumcision and require that the people keep the law of Moses.”" 
Acts15:6 So the apostles and elders met privately to discuss the matter further. 
Acts15:7 After a lengthy debate, Peter rose to his feet and said to them, “Brothers, you know how God has chosen me from the beginning to preach the wonderful news of the gospel to the non-Jewish nations." 
Acts15:8 God, who knows the hearts of every person, confirmed this when he gave them the Holy Spirit, just like he has given the Spirit to us." 
Acts15:9 So now, not one thing separates us as Jews and gentiles, for when they believe he makes their hearts pure." 
Acts15:10 So why on earth would you now limit God’s grace by placing a yoke of religious duties on the shoulders of the believers that neither we nor our ancestors have been able to bear? 
Acts15:11 Don’t you believe that we are introduced to eternal life through the grace of our Lord Jesus—the same grace that has brought these people new life?” 
Acts15:12 Everyone became silent and listened carefully as Paul and Barnabas shared with the council at length about the signs and wonders and miracles God had worked through them while ministering to the non-Jewish people. 
Acts15:13 When they had finished, Jacob took the floor and said, “Ladies and gentlemen, listen." 
Acts15:14 Peter has explained thoroughly that God has determined to win a people for himself from among the non-Jewish nations. 
Acts15:15 And the prophet’s words are fulfilled: 
Acts15:16 ‘After these things I will return to you and raise up the tabernacle of David that has fallen into ruin. I will restore and rebuild what David experienced 
Acts15:17 so that all of humanity will be able to encounter the Lord including the gentiles whom I have called to be my very own,’ says the Lord." 
Acts15:18 ‘For I have made known my works from eternity!’ 
Acts15:19 “So, in my judgment, we should not add any unnecessary burden upon the non-Jewish converts who are turning to God." 
Acts15:20 We will go to them as apostles and teach them to be set free from offering sacrifices to idols, sexual immorality, and eating anything strangled or with any blood." 
Acts15:21 For many generations these words of Moses have been proclaimed every Sabbath day in the synagogues.” 
Acts15:22 The apostles and elders and the church of Jerusalem chose delegates to go to Antioch in Syria. They chose Judas, called Barsabbas, and Silas, both leaders in the church, to accompany Paul and Barnabas." 
Acts15:23 They sent with them this letter: “Greetings from the apostles and pastors, and from your fellow believers—to our non-Jewish brothers and sisters living in Antioch in Syria and the nearby regions." 
Acts15:24 “We are aware that some have come to you from the church of Jerusalem. These men were not sent by us, but came with false teachings that have brought confusion and division, telling you to keep the law and be circumcised—things we never commanded them to teach." 
Acts15:25 So after deliberation, we’re sending you our beloved brothers Paul and Barnabas, who have risked their lives for the glory of the name of our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One. They are accompanied by Judas and Silas, whom we have unanimously chosen to send as our representatives to you. They will validate all that we’re wanting to share with you." 
Acts15:26  
Acts15:27  
Acts15:28 “For it pleases the Holy Spirit and us that we not place any unnecessary burden on you, except for the following restrictions:" 
Acts15:29 Stay away from anything sacrificed to a pagan idol, from eating what is strangled or with any blood, and from any form of sexual immorality. You will be beautiful believers if you keep your souls from these things, and you will be true and faithful to our Lord Jesus. May God bless you!”" 
Acts15:30 They sent the four men off for Antioch, and after gathering the regional church together, they delivered the letter." 
Acts15:31 When the people heard the letter read out loud, they were overjoyed and delighted by its encouraging message." 
Acts15:32 Then Judas and Silas, who were both prophets, spoke to them affirming words that strengthened the believers." 
Acts15:33 After the four men spent some time there, the church sent them off in peace to return to the apostles in Jerusalem." 
Acts15:34 However, only Judas departed; Paul, Barnabas, and Silas stayed in Antioch, where they and many others preached and taught the wonderful message of the word of God." 
Acts15:35  
Acts15:36 After some days, Paul said to Barnabas, “Let’s travel to the regions where we’ve preached the word of God and see how the believers are getting along.”" 
Acts15:37 Barnabas wished to take Mark (also known as John) along with them," 
Acts15:37 Barnabas wished to take Mark (also known as John) along with them," 
Acts15:37 Barnabas wished to take Mark (also known as John) along with them," 
Acts15:38 but Paul disagreed. He didn’t think it was proper to take the one who had deserted them in south-central Turkey, leaving them to do their missionary work without him." 
Acts15:39 It became a heated argument between them, a disagreement so sharp that they parted from each other. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts15:39 It became a heated argument between them, a disagreement so sharp that they parted from each other. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts15:40 And Paul chose Silas as his partner. After the believers prayed for them, asking for the Lord’s favor on their ministry, they left" 
Acts15:41 for Syria and southeast Turkey. Every place they went, they left the church stronger and more encouraged than before." 
Acts16:1 Paul and Silas came to the city of Derbe and then went on to Lystra, the hometown of a believer named Timothy. His mother was a Jewish follower of Jesus, but his father was not a Jew." 
Acts16:2 Timothy was well known and highly respected among all the believers of Lystra and Iconium. 
Acts16:3 Paul recognized God’s favor on Timothy’s life and wanted him to accompany them in ministry, but Paul had Timothy circumcised first because of the significant Jewish community living in the region, and everyone knew that Timothy’s father wasn’t a Jew." 
Acts16:4 They went out together as missionaries, traveling to different cities where they preached and informed the churches of the decrees of the apostolic council of Jerusalem for the non-Jewish converts to observe." 
Acts16:5 All the churches were growing daily and were encouraged and strengthened in their faith. 
Acts16:6 The Holy Spirit had forbidden Paul and his partners to preach the word in the southwestern provinces of Turkey, so they ministered throughout the region of central and west-central Turkey." 
Acts16:7 When they got as far west as the borders of Mysia, they repeatedly attempted to go north into the province of Bithynia, but again the Spirit of Jesus would not allow them to enter." 
Acts16:8 So instead they went right on through the province of Mysia to the seaport of Troas. 
Acts16:9 While staying there Paul experienced a supernatural, ecstatic vision during the night. A man from Macedonia appeared before him, pleading with him, “You must come across the sea to Macedonia and help us!”" 
Acts16:10 After Paul had this vision, we immediately prepared to cross over to Macedonia, convinced that God himself was calling us to go and preach the wonderful news of the gospel to them." 
Acts16:11 From Troas we sailed a straight course to the island of Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis." 
Acts16:12 Finally we reached Philippi, a major city in the Roman colony of Macedonia, and we remained there for a number of days." 
Acts16:13 When the Sabbath day came, we went outside the gates of the city to the nearby river, for there appeared to be a house of prayer and worship there. Sitting on the riverbank we struck up a conversation with some of the women who had gathered there." 
Acts16:14 One of them was Lydia, a businesswoman from the city of Thyatira who was a dealer of exquisite purple cloth and a Jewish convert. While Paul shared the good news with her, God opened her heart to receive Paul’s message." 
Acts16:15 She devoted herself to the Lord, and we baptized her and her entire family. Afterward she urged us to stay in her home, saying, “Since I am now a believer in the Lord, come and stay in my house.” So we were persuaded to stay there." 
Acts16:16 One day, as we were going to the house of prayer, we encountered a young slave girl who had an evil spirit of divination, the spirit of Python. She had earned great profits for her owners by being a fortune-teller." 
Acts16:17 She kept following us, shouting, “These men are servants of the Great High God, and they’re telling us how to be saved!”" 
Acts16:18 Day after day she continued to do this, until Paul, greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit indwelling her, “I command you in the name of Jesus, the Anointed One, to come out of her, now!” At that very moment, the spirit came out of her!" 
Acts16:19 When her owners realized that their potential of making profit had vanished, they forcefully seized Paul and Silas and dragged them off to the city square to face the authorities." 
Acts16:20 When they appeared before the Roman soldiers and magistrates, the slave owners leveled accusations against them, saying, “These Jews are troublemakers. They’re throwing our city into confusion." 
Acts16:21 They’re pushing their Jewish religion down our throats. It’s wrong and unlawful for them to promote these Jewish ways, for we are Romans living in a Roman colony.”" 
Acts16:21 They’re pushing their Jewish religion down our throats. It’s wrong and unlawful for them to promote these Jewish ways, for we are Romans living in a Roman colony.”" 
Acts16:22 A great crowd gathered, and all the people joined in to come against them. The Roman officials ordered that Paul and Silas be stripped of their garments and beaten with rods on their bare backs." 
Acts16:23 After they were severely beaten, they were thrown into prison and the jailer was commanded to guard them securely." 
Acts16:24 So the jailer placed them in the innermost cell of the prison and had their feet bound and chained. 
Acts16:25 Paul and Silas, undaunted, prayed in the middle of the night and sang songs of praise to God, while all the other prisoners listened to their worship." 
Acts16:26 Suddenly, a great earthquake shook the foundations of the prison. All at once every prison door flung open and the chains of all the prisoners came loose." 
Acts16:27 Startled, the jailer awoke and saw every cell door standing open. Assuming that all the prisoners had escaped, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself" 
Acts16:28 when Paul shouted in the darkness, “Stop! Don’t hurt yourself. We’re all still here.”" 
Acts16:29 The jailer called for a light. When he saw that they were still in their cells, he rushed in and fell trembling at their feet." 
Acts16:30 Then he led Paul and Silas outside and asked, “What must I do to be saved?”" 
Acts16:31 They answered, “Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved—you and all your family.”" 
Acts16:32 Then they prophesied the word of the Lord over him and all his family. 
Acts16:33 Even though the hour was late, he washed their wounds. Then he and all his family were baptized. He took Paul and Silas into his home and set them at his table and fed them." 
Acts16:34 The jailer and all his family were filled with joy in their newfound faith in God. 
Acts16:35 At daybreak, the magistrates sent officers to the prison with orders to tell the jailer, “Let those two men go.”" 
Acts16:36 The jailer informed Paul and Silas, “The magistrates have sent orders to release you. So you’re free to go now.”" 
Acts16:37 But Paul told the officers, “Look, they had us beaten in public, without a fair trial—and we are Roman citizens. Do you think we’re just going to quietly walk away after they threw us in prison and violated all of our rights? Absolutely not! You go back and tell the magistrates that they need to come down here themselves and escort us out!”" 
Acts16:38 When the officers went back and reported what Paul and Silas had told them, the magistrates were frightened, especially upon hearing that they had beaten two Roman citizens without due process." 
Acts16:39 So they went to the prison and apologized to Paul and Silas, begging them repeatedly, saying, “Please leave our city.”" 
Acts16:40 So Paul and Silas left the prison and went back to Lydia’s house, where they met with the believers and comforted and encouraged them before departing." 
Acts17:1 After passing through the cities of Amphipolis and Apollonia, Paul and Silas arrived at Thessalonica." 
Acts17:2 As they customarily did, they went to the synagogue to speak to the Jews from the Torah scrolls. For three weeks" 
Acts17:3 Paul challenged them by explaining the truth and proving to them the reality of the gospel—that the Messiah had to suffer and die, then rise again from among the dead. He made it clear to them, saying, “I come to announce to you that Jesus is the Anointed One, the Messiah!”" 
Acts17:4 Some of the Jews were convinced that their message was true, so they joined Paul and Silas, along with quite a few prominent women and a large number of Greeks who worshiped God." 
Acts17:5 But many of the Jews were motivated by bitter jealousy and formed a large mob out of the troublemakers, unsavory characters, and street gangs to incite a riot. They set out to attack Jason’s house, for he had welcomed the apostles into his home. The mob was after Paul and Silas and sought to take them by force and bring them out to the people." 
Acts17:6 When they couldn’t find them, they took Jason instead, along with some of the brothers in his house church, and dragged them before the city council. Along the way they screamed out, “Those troublemakers who have turned the world upside down have come here to our city." 
Acts17:7 And now Jason and these men have welcomed them as guests. They’re traitors to Caesar, teaching that there is another king named Jesus.”" 
Acts17:8 Their angry shouts stirred up the crowds and troubled the city and all its officials. 
Acts17:9 So when Paul and Silas came before the leaders of the city, they refused to let them go until Jason and his men posted bail." 
Acts17:10 That night the believers sent Paul and Silas off to the city of Berea, where they once again went into the synagogue." 
Acts17:11 They found that the Jews of Berea were of more noble character and much more open minded than those of Thessalonica. They were hungry to learn and eagerly received the word. Every day they opened the scrolls of Scripture to search and examine them, to verify that what Paul taught them was true." 
Acts17:12 A large number of Jews became believers in Jesus, along with quite a few influential Greek women and men." 
Acts17:13 When the news reached the Jews in Thessalonica that Paul was now in Berea, preaching the word of God, the troublemakers went there too and they agitated and stirred up the crowds against him." 
Acts17:14 The fellow believers helped Paul slip away to the coast of the Aegean Sea, while Silas and Timothy remained in Berea." 
Acts17:15 Those who accompanied Paul sailed with him as far as Athens. Then Paul sent them back to Berea with instructions for Silas and Timothy to hurry and join him. 
Acts17:16 While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was deeply troubled when he realized that the entire city was full of idols." 
Acts17:17 He argued the claims of the gospel with the Jews in their synagogue, and with those who were worshipers of God, and every day he preached in the public square to whomever would listen." 
Acts17:18 Philosophers of the teachings of Epicurus, and others called Stoics, debated with Paul. When they heard him speak about Jesus and his resurrection, they said, “What strange ideas is this babbler trying to present?” Others said, “He’s peddling some kind of foreign religion.”" 
Acts17:19 So they brought him for a public dialogue before the leadership council of Athens, known as the Areopagus. “Tell us,” they said, “about this new teaching that you’re bringing to our city." 
Acts17:20 You’re presenting strange and astonishing things to our ears, and we want to know what it all means.”" 
Acts17:21 Now, it was the favorite pastime of the Athenians and visitors to Athens to discuss the newest ideas and philosophies." 
Acts17:22 So Paul stood in the middle of the leadership council and said, “Respected leaders of Athens, it is clear to me how extravagant you are in your worship of idols." 
Acts17:23 For as I walked through your city, I was captivated by the many shrines and objects of your worship. I even found an inscription on one altar that read, ‘To the Unknown God.’ I have come to introduce to you this God whom you worship without even knowing anything about him." 
Acts17:24 “The true God is the Creator of all things. He is the owner and Lord of the heavenly realm and the earthly realm, and he doesn’t live in man-made temples." 
Acts17:25 He supplies life and breath and all things to every living being. He doesn’t lack a thing that we mortals could supply for him, for he has all things and everything he needs." 
Acts17:26 From one man, Adam, he made every man and woman and every race of humanity, and he spread us over all the earth. He sets the boundaries of people and nations, determining their appointed times in history." 
Acts17:27 He has done this so that every person would long for God, feel their way to him, and find him—for he is the God who is easy to discover!" 
Acts17:28 It is through him that we live and function and have our identity; just as your own poets have said, ‘Our lineage comes from him.’" 
Acts17:29 “Since our lineage can be traced back to God, how could we even think that the divine image could be compared to something made of gold, silver, or stone, sculpted by man’s artwork and clever imagination?" 
Acts17:30 “In the past God tolerated our ignorance of these things, but now the time of deception has passed away. He commands us all to repent and turn to God." 
Acts17:31 For the appointed day has risen, in which he is going to judge the world in righteousness by the man he has designated. And the proof given to the world that God has chosen this man is this: he resurrected him from among the dead!”" 
Acts17:32 The moment they heard Paul bring up the topic of resurrection, some of them ridiculed him, then got up and left. But others said, “We want to hear you again later about these things.”" 
Acts17:33 So Paul left the meeting. 
Acts17:34 But there were some who believed the message and joined him from that day forward. Among them were Dionysius, a judge on the leadership council, and a woman named Damaris." 
Acts18:1 When Paul left Athens he traveled to Corinth," 
Acts18:2 where he met a Jewish man named Aquila, who was originally from northeastern Turkey. He and his wife, Priscilla, had recently emigrated from Italy to Corinth because Emperor Claudius had expelled all the Jews from Rome." 
Acts18:3 Since Paul and Aquila were both tentmakers by trade, Paul moved in with them and they became business partners." 
Acts18:4 Every Sabbath day Paul spoke openly in the synagogue, to both Jews and non-Jews, attempting to persuade them to believe the message of Jesus." 
Acts18:5 When Silas and Timothy finally arrived from Macedonia, Paul spent all his time preaching the word of God, trying to convince the Jews that Jesus was the Messiah." 
Acts18:6 When they viciously slandered him and hurled abuse on him, he symbolically shook the dust off his clothes in protest against them. He said to them, “Have it your way then! I am guiltless as to your fate, for the blood-guilt of your actions will be on your own heads, and from now on I will preach to the non-Jews.”" 
Acts18:7 Leaving the synagogue, Paul went to the home of Titus, a convert to Judaism, for he and his family attended the Jewish meetings and they had all become believers in Jesus." 
Acts18:7 Leaving the synagogue, Paul went to the home of Titus, a convert to Judaism, for he and his family attended the Jewish meetings and they had all become believers in Jesus." 
Acts18:8 Crispus, the leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire family, and many of the Corinthians who heard what had happened believed in the Lord and were baptized." 
Acts18:9 One night, the Lord spoke to Paul in a supernatural vision and said, “Don’t ever be afraid. Speak the words that I give you and don’t be intimidated," 
Acts18:10 because I am with you. No one will be able to hurt you, for there are many in this city whom I call my own.”" 
Acts18:11 For the next year and a half, Paul stayed in Corinth, faithfully teaching the word of God." 
Acts18:12 Now, at that time, Gallio was the regional governor who ruled over the Roman province of Achaia, and the Jews turned against Paul and came together to seize him and bring him publicly before the governor’s court." 
Acts18:13 They accused him before Gallio, saying, “This man is creating a disturbance by persuading people to worship God in ways that are contrary to our laws.”" 
Acts18:14 Just as Paul was about to speak in his defense, Gallio interrupted and said, “Wait! If this involved some major crime or fraud, it would be my responsibility to hear the case." 
Acts18:15 But this is nothing more than a disagreement among yourselves over semantics and personalities and traditions of your own Jewish laws. Go and settle it yourselves! I refuse to be the judge of these issues.” 
Acts18:16 So Gallio dismissed them from the court. 
Acts18:17 Immediately the crowd turned on Sosthenes, one of the leaders of the synagogue who sided with Paul. They seized him and beat him up right there in the courtroom! But Gallio showed no concern at all over what was happening." 
Acts18:18 After remaining in Corinth several more days, Paul finally bid shalom to the believers and sailed away for the coast of Syria, accompanied by Priscilla and Aquila. Before they left, Paul had his head shaved at Cenchrea, because he had taken a vow of dedication." 
Acts18:19 When they reached Ephesus, Paul left Priscilla and Aquila behind, then he went into the synagogue and spoke to the Jews." 
Acts18:20 They asked him to stay longer, but he refused" 
Acts18:21 and said farewell to them, adding, “I will come back to you, if it is God’s will, after I go to Jerusalem to observe the feast.” Then he set sail from Ephesus for Caesarea." 
Acts18:22 When he arrived there he traveled on to Jerusalem to visit the church and pray for them, then he left for Antioch." 
Acts18:23 After spending some time there, Paul continued on through the region of Galatia and Phyrgia in central Turkey. And wherever he went he encouraged and strengthened the believers." 
Acts18:24 A Jewish man by the name of Apollos arrived in Ephesus. He was a native of Alexandria and was recognized as an educated and cultured man. He was powerful in the Scriptures," 
Acts18:25 had accepted Jesus, and had been taught about the Lord. He was spiritually passionate for Jesus and a convincing teacher, although he only knew about the baptism of John." 
Acts18:25 had accepted Jesus, and had been taught about the Lord. He was spiritually passionate for Jesus and a convincing teacher, although he only knew about the baptism of John." 
Acts18:26 He fearlessly preached in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard Apollos’ teachings, they met with him privately and revealed to him the ways of God more completely." 
Acts18:27 Then Apollos, with the encouragement of the believers, went to the province of Achaia. He took a letter of recommendation from the brothers of Ephesus so his ministry would be welcomed in the region. He was a tremendous help to the believers and caused them to increase in grace." 
Acts18:28 Apollos boldly and publicly confronted the Jews, vigorously debating them, proving undeniably from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah." 
Acts19:1 While Apollos was ministering in Corinth, Paul traveled on through the regions of Turkey until he arrived in Ephesus, where he found a group of twelve followers of Jesus." 
Acts19:2 The first thing he asked them was “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you became believers?” “No,” they replied. “We’ve not even heard of a holy spirit.”" 
Acts19:3 Paul asked, “Then what was the meaning of your baptism?” They responded, “It meant that we would follow John’s teaching.”" 
Acts19:3 Paul asked, “Then what was the meaning of your baptism?” They responded, “It meant that we would follow John’s teaching.”" 
Acts19:4 Paul said, “John’s baptism was for those who were turning from their sins, and he taught you to believe in and follow the one who was coming after him: Jesus the Anointed One.”" 
Acts19:4 Paul said, “John’s baptism was for those who were turning from their sins, and he taught you to believe in and follow the one who was coming after him: Jesus the Anointed One.”" 
Acts19:5 When they understood this, they were baptized into the authority of Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Acts19:6 And when Paul laid his hands on each of the twelve, the Holy Spirit manifested and they immediately spoke in tongues and prophesied." 
Acts19:7  
Acts19:8 For three months Paul taught openly and fearlessly in the synagogue, arguing persuasively for them to enter into God’s kingdom realm." 
Acts19:9 But some of them hardened their hearts and stubbornly refused to believe. When they spoke evil of the Way in front of the congregation, Paul withdrew from them and took the believers with him." 
Acts19:10 Every day for over two years, he taught them in the lecture hall of Tyrannus, which resulted in everyone living in the province of Asia, Jews and non-Jews, hearing the prophetic word of the Lord." 
Acts19:11 God kept releasing a flow of extraordinary miracles through the hands of Paul. 
Acts19:12 Because of this, people took Paul’s handkerchiefs and articles of clothing, even pieces of cloth that had touched his skin, laying them on the bodies of the sick, and diseases and demons left them and they were healed." 
Acts19:13 Now, there were seven itinerant Jewish exorcists, sons of Sceva the high priest, who took it upon themselves to use the name and authority of Jesus over those who were demonized. They would say, “We cast you out in the name of the Jesus that Paul preaches!”" 
Acts19:14  
Acts19:15 One day, when they said those words, the demon in the man replied, “I know about Jesus, and I recognize Paul, but who do you think you are?”" 
Acts19:16 Then the demonized man jumped on them and threw them to the ground, beating them mercilessly. He overpowered the seven exorcists until they all ran out of the house naked and badly bruised." 
Acts19:17 All of the people in Ephesus were awestruck, both Jews and non-Jews, when they heard about what had happened. Great fear fell over the entire city, and the authority of the name of Jesus was exalted." 
Acts19:18 Many believers publicly confessed their sins and disclosed their secrets. 
Acts19:19 Large numbers of those who had been practicing magic took all of their books and scrolls of spells and incantations and publicly burned them. When the value of all the books and scrolls was calculated, it all came to several million dollars." 
Acts19:20 The power of God caused the word to spread, and the people were greatly impacted." 
Acts19:21 Paul had it in his heart to go to Jerusalem and, on his way there, to revisit the places in Greece where he had ministered. “After that,” he said, “I have to go to Rome also.”" 
Acts19:22 So he sent ahead into Macedonia two of his ministry assistants, Timothy and Erastus, while he remained in western Turkey." 
Acts19:23 At that time a major disturbance erupted in Ephesus over the people following God’s way. 
Acts19:24 It began with a wealthy man named Demetrius, who had built a large business and enriched many craftsmen by manufacturing silver shrines for the Greek goddess Artemis." 
Acts19:25 Demetrius called a meeting of his employees, along with all the various tradespeople of Ephesus, and said, “You know that our prosperous livelihood is being threatened by this Paul, who is persuading crowds of people to turn away from our gods. We make a good living by doing what we do, but everywhere Paul goes, not only here in Ephesus but throughout western Turkey, he convinces people that there’s no such thing as a god made with hands." 
Acts19:26  
Acts19:27 Our businesses are in danger of being discredited. And not only that, but the temple of our great goddess Artemis is being dishonored and seen as worthless. She is the goddess of all of western Turkey and is worshiped in all the world. But if this outrage continues, everyone everywhere will suffer the loss of her magnificent greatness.”" 
Acts19:28 When the people heard this, they were filled with boiling rage. They shouted over and over, “Artemis, the great goddess of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:28 When the people heard this, they were filled with boiling rage. They shouted over and over, “Artemis, the great goddess of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:29 The entire city was thrown into chaos as everyone rushed into the stadium together, dragging with them Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul’s traveling companions from Macedonia." 
Acts19:30 When Paul attempted to go in and speak to the massive crowd, the disciples wouldn’t let him." 
Acts19:31 Some of the high-ranking governmental officials of the region, because they loved him, sent Paul an urgent message, saying, “Whatever you do, don’t step foot into that stadium!”" 
Acts19:32 The frenzied crowd shouted out one thing, and others shouted something else, until they were all in mass confusion, with many not even knowing why they were there!" 
Acts19:33 Some of the Jews pushed forward a Jewish man named Alexander to be their spokesman, and different factions of the crowd shouted instructions at him. He stood before the people and motioned for everyone to be quiet so he could be heard." 
Acts19:34 But when he began to speak, they realized that he was a Jew, so they shouted him down. For nearly two hours they shouted over and over, “Great is Artemis, the goddess of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:34 But when he began to speak, they realized that he was a Jew, so they shouted him down. For nearly two hours they shouted over and over, “Great is Artemis, the goddess of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:35 Eventually the mayor of the city was able to quiet them down. He said, “Fellow citizens! Who in the world doesn’t know that we are devoted to the great temple of Artemis and to her image that fell from Zeus out of heaven?" 
Acts19:36 Since no one can deny it, you should all just be quiet. Calm down and don’t do anything hasty." 
Acts19:37 For you have brought these men before us who aren’t guilty of any crime. They are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of our goddess. 
Acts19:38 So if Demetrius and the men of his trade have a case against someone, the courts are open. They can appear before the judge and press charges." 
Acts19:39 But if you’re looking for anything further to bring up, it must be argued before the court and settled there, not here." 
Acts19:40 Don’t you realize we’re putting our city in danger of being accused of a riot by the Roman authorities? There’s no good explanation we can give them for all this commotion!” 
Acts19:41 After he had said this, he dispersed the crowds and sent them away." 
Acts20:1 When the uproar finally died down, Paul gathered the believers and encouraged their hearts. He kissed them, said good-bye, and left for Macedonia." 
Acts20:2 At every place he passed through, he brought words of great comfort and encouragement to the believers. Then he went on to Greece" 
Acts20:3 and stayed there for three months. Just as Paul was about to sail for Syria, he learned of a plot against him by the Jews, so he decided to return by going through Macedonia." 
Acts20:4 Seven men accompanied him as far as western Turkey. They were Sopater, son of Pyrrhus from Berea, Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, Gaius from Derbe, and Timothy, Tychicus, and Trophimus from western Turkey." 
Acts20:5 These men went ahead and were waiting for us at Troas. 
Acts20:6 As soon as all of the Passover celebrations were over, we sailed from Philippi. After five days we joined the others in Troas, where we stayed another week." 
Acts20:7 On Sunday we gathered to take communion and to hear Paul preach. Because he was planning to leave the next day, he continued speaking until past midnight." 
Acts20:8 There were many flickering lights in the upstairs chamber where we were meeting. 
Acts20:9 Sitting in an open window listening was a young man named Eutychus. As Paul’s sermon dragged on, Eutychus became drowsy and fell into a deep slumber. Sound asleep, he fell three stories to his death below." 
Acts20:10 Paul went downstairs, bent over the boy, and embraced him. Taking him in his arms, he said to all the people gathered, “Stop your worrying. He’s come back to life!”" 
Acts20:11 Paul went back upstairs, served communion, and ate a meal with them. Then he picked back up where he left off and taught until dawn." 
Acts20:12 Filled with enormous joy, they took the boy home alive and everyone was encouraged." 
Acts20:13 Continuing our journey, we made our way to the ship and sailed for Assos. Paul had previously arranged to meet us there as he traveled overland by foot." 
Acts20:14 So he rejoined our team there and we took him aboard and sailed for Mitylene. 
Acts20:15 The next day we crossed over to Chios, and the following day we arrived at the island of Samos. We stayed at Trogyllium, and on the day after that we reached Miletus." 
Acts20:16 Paul was in a hurry to arrive in Jerusalem, hoping to make it in time for the Feast of Pentecost, so he decided to bypass Ephesus and not spend any time in that region." 
Acts20:17 However, from Miletus Paul had sent a message to the elders of the church in Ephesus and asked them to come meet with him." 
Acts20:18 When they arrived, he said to them, “All of you know how I’ve lived and conducted myself while I was with you. From the first day I set foot in western Turkey" 
Acts20:19 I’ve operated in God’s miracle power with great humility and served you with many tears. I’ve endured numerous ordeals because of the plots of the Jews. 
Acts20:20 You know how I’ve taught you in public meetings and in your homes, and that I’ve not held anything back from you that would help you grow." 
Acts20:21 I urged both Jews and non-Jews to turn from sin to God and to have faith in our Lord Jesus. 
Acts20:22 And now I am captive to the Holy Spirit to go to Jerusalem, without really knowing what will happen to me there." 
Acts20:23 Yet I know that the Holy Spirit warns me in town after town, saying, ‘Chains and afflictions are prepared for you.’" 
Acts20:24 “But whether I live or die is not important, for I don’t esteem my life as indispensable. It’s more important for me to fulfill my destiny and to finish the ministry my Lord Jesus has assigned to me, which is to faithfully preach the wonderful news of God’s grace." 
Acts20:25 I’ve been a part of your lives and shared with you many times the message of God’s kingdom realm. But now I leave you, and you will not see my face again." 
Acts20:26 If any of you should be lost, I will not be blamed, for my conscience is clean," 
Acts20:27 because I’ve taught you everything I could about God’s eternal plan and I’ve held nothing back. 
Acts20:28 So guard your hearts. Be true shepherds over all the flock and feed them well. Remember, it was the Holy Spirit who appointed you to guard and oversee the churches that belong to Jesus, the Anointed One, which he purchased and established by his own blood." 
Acts20:29 “I know that after I leave, imposters who have no loyalty to the flock will come among you like savage wolves." 
Acts20:30 Even some from among your very own ranks will rise up, twisting the truth to seduce people into following them instead of Jesus." 
Acts20:31 So be alert and discerning. Remember that for three years, night and day, I’ve never stopped warning each of you, pouring out my heart to you with tears." 
Acts20:32 “And so now, I entrust you into God’s hands and the message of his grace, which is all that you need to become strong. All of God’s blessings are imparted through the message of his grace, which he provides as the spiritual inheritance given to all of his holy ones." 
Acts20:33 “I haven’t been after your money or any of your possessions. 
Acts20:34 You all know that I’ve worked with my hands to meet my own needs and the needs of those who’ve served with me. 
Acts20:35 I’ve left you an example of how you should serve and take care of those who are weak. For we must always cherish the words of our Lord Jesus, who taught, ‘Giving brings a far greater blessing than receiving.’  ”" 
Acts20:36 After Paul finished speaking, he knelt down and prayed with them." 
Acts20:37 Then they all cried with great weeping as one after another hugged Paul and kissed him. 
Acts20:38 What broke their hearts the most were his words “You will not see my face again.” Then they tearfully accompanied Paul back to the ship. 
Acts21:1 After we tore ourselves away from them, we put out to sea and sailed a direct course for the island of Kos, and on the next day to the island of Rhodes, and from there to Patara." 
Acts21:2 There we found a ship that was crossing over to Syria, so we went aboard and sailed away." 
Acts21:3 After we sighted Cyprus and sailed south of it, we docked at Tyre in Syria, where the ship unloaded its cargo." 
Acts21:4 When we went ashore we found a number of believers and stayed with them for a week. They prophesied to Paul repeatedly, warning him by the Holy Spirit not to set foot in Jerusalem." 
Acts21:5 When it was time for us to leave and be on our way, everyone—men, women, and children—accompanied us out of the city down to the beach. After we all knelt in the sand and prayed together," 
Acts21:6 we kissed one another, said our good-byes, and boarded the ship, while the believers went back to their homes." 
Acts21:7 From Tyre we sailed on to the town of Akko and greeted the believers there with peace. We stayed with them for a day. 
Acts21:8 Then we went on to Caesarea and stayed for several days in the home of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven deacons and" 
Acts21:9 the father of four unmarried daughters who prophesied. 
Acts21:10 During our stay of several days, Agabus, a prophet from Judea, came to visit us." 
Acts21:10 During our stay of several days, Agabus, a prophet from Judea, came to visit us." 
Acts21:11 As a prophetic gesture, he took Paul’s belt and tied his own hands and feet with it as he prophesied, “The Holy Spirit says, ‘The one who owns this belt will be tied up in this same way by the Jews and they will hand him over to those who are not Jews.’ ”" 
Acts21:12 When we heard this, both we and the believers of Caesarea begged Paul not to go on to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:13 But Paul replied, “Why do you cry and break my heart with your tears? Don’t you know that I’m prepared not only to be imprisoned but to die in Jerusalem for the sake of the wonder of the name of our Lord Jesus?”" 
Acts21:14 Because we couldn’t persuade him, we gave up and said nothing more except “May the will of the Lord be done.”" 
Acts21:15 Afterward we packed our bags and set off for Jerusalem," 
Acts21:16 with some of the believers from Caesarea accompanying us. They brought us to a village where they introduced us to Mnason, a Cypriot, one of the original disciples, and he offered us hospitality." 
Acts21:17 When we finally arrived in Jerusalem, the believers welcomed us with delight." 
Acts21:18 The next day Paul and our team had a meeting with Jacob and all the elders of the Jerusalem church. 
Acts21:19 After greeting everyone, Paul explained in detail what God had accomplished through his ministry among the non-Jewish people." 
Acts21:20 When they heard Paul’s report, they praised God. And they said to him, “You should know, brother, that there are many tens of thousands of Jews who have also embraced the faith and are passionately keeping the law of Moses." 
Acts21:21 But they’ve heard a rumor that you’ve been instructing the Jews everywhere to abandon Moses by telling them they don’t need to circumcise their children or keep our Jewish customs. 
Acts21:22 They will certainly hear that you’ve come to Jerusalem. So what is the proper way to proceed? 
Acts21:23 We urge you to follow our suggestion. We have four men here who have taken a vow and are ready to have their heads shaved. 
Acts21:24 Now go with them to the temple and sponsor them in their purification ceremony, and pay all their required expenses. Then everyone will know that the rumors they’ve heard are false. They’ll see that you are one who lives according to the law of Moses." 
Acts21:25 But in reference to the non-Jewish believers, we’ve sent them a letter with our decision, stating that they should avoid eating meat that has been offered to an idol, or eating blood or any animal that has been strangled, and to avoid sexual immorality.”" 
Acts21:26 The next day, Paul took the four men to the temple and ceremonially purified himself along with them. He publicly gave notice of the date when their vows would end and when sacrifices would be offered for each of them." 
Acts21:27 When the seven-day period was almost over, a number of Jews from western Turkey who had seen him in the temple courts stirred up the whole crowd against him. Seizing him," 
Acts21:28 they shouted, “Men of Israel, help us! This is the man who teaches everywhere what is contrary to our nation, our law, and this temple. And not only that, but now he brings these non-Jewish men with him into the inner courts of our temple! They have made this sacred place ritually unclean.”" 
Acts21:29 (For Trophimus, an Ephesian, had been seen previously with him, and they assumed that he entered the inner courts with Paul.)" 
Acts21:30 This ignited a huge riot in the city as all the people came together to seize Paul and drag him out of the temple courts, closing the gates behind him." 
Acts21:31 But as they were about to kill Paul, the news reached the commander of the Roman garrison that the entire city was in an uproar." 
Acts21:32 He immediately ran out to the crowd with a large number of his officers and soldiers. When the crowd saw them coming, they stopped beating Paul." 
Acts21:33 The commander arrested him and ordered that he be bound with two chains. He then asked, “Who is he and what has he done wrong?”" 
Acts21:34 Some in the crowd shouted one thing and others something else, just adding to the confusion. Since the commander was unable to get to the truth because of the disturbance, he ordered that Paul be brought back to their headquarters." 
Acts21:35 When they reached the steps leading up to the fortress, they had to protect Paul and carry him up because of the violent mob following them," 
Acts21:36 and everyone was screaming out, “Away with this man! Kill him!”" 
Acts21:37 As Paul was being led to the entrance of the compound, he said to the commander in Greek, “May I have a word with you?” The commander replied, “So you know Greek, do you?" 
Acts21:38 Aren’t you that Egyptian fanatic who started a rebellion some time ago and led four thousand assassins out into the wilderness?” 
Acts21:39 Paul answered, “I am, in fact, a Jew from Tarsus, in Cilicia, a well-known city of southern Turkey where I was born. I beg you, sir, please give me a moment to speak to these people.”" 
Acts21:40 When the commander gave his permission, Paul stood on the steps and gestured with his hands for the people to listen. When the crowd quieted down, Paul addressed them in Aramaic and said:" 
Acts22:1 “Ladies and gentlemen, fellow believers and elders —please listen to me as I offer my defense.”" 
Acts22:2 (Now, when everyone realized he was speaking to them in their Judean Aramaic language, the crowd became all the more attentive.)" 
Acts22:2 (Now, when everyone realized he was speaking to them in their Judean Aramaic language, the crowd became all the more attentive.)" 
Acts22:3 Then Paul said, “I am a Jewish man who was born in Tarsus, a city of Turkey. However, I grew up in this city and was properly trained in the Mosaic law and tutored by Rabbi Gamaliel according to our ancestral customs. I’ve been extremely passionate in my desire to please God, just as all of you are today." 
Acts22:4 I’ve hunted down and killed the followers of this Way. I have seized them and thrown them into prison, both men and women." 
Acts22:5 All of this can be verified by the high priest and the Supreme Council of Elders. For they even wrote letters to our fellow Jews of Damascus, authorizing me to arrest them and bring them back to Jerusalem as prisoners to be punished." 
Acts22:6 “As I was on the road approaching Damascus, about noon, a brilliant heavenly light suddenly appeared, flashing all around me." 
Acts22:7 As I fell to the ground I heard a voice say, ‘Saul, Saul . . . why are you persecuting me?’" 
Acts22:8 “I answered, ‘Who are you, my Lord?’ “He said to me, ‘I am Jesus, the Victorious. I am the one you are persecuting.’" 
Acts22:9 “Those who were with me saw the brilliant light, but they didn’t hear the voice of the one who spoke to me." 
Acts22:10 “So I asked, ‘Lord, what am I to do?’ “And the Lord said to me, ‘Get up and go into Damascus, and there you will be told about all that you are destined to do.’" 
Acts22:11 “Because of the dazzling glory of the light, I couldn’t see—I was left blind. So they had to lead me by the hand the rest of the way into Damascus." 
Acts22:12 “A Jewish man living there named Ananias came to see me. He was a godly man who lived according to the law of Moses and was highly esteemed by the Jewish community. 
Acts22:13 He stood beside me and said, ‘Saul! My brother, Saul—open your eyes and see again!’ At that very instant I opened my eyes and I could see!" 
Acts22:14 Then he said to me, ‘The God of our ancestors has destined you to know his plan and for you to see the Holy One and to hear his voice." 
Acts22:15 For you will be his witness to every race of people and will share with them everything that you’ve seen and heard. 
Acts22:16 So now, what are you waiting for? Get up, be baptized, and wash away your sins as you call upon his name.’" 
Acts22:17 “Then I returned to Jerusalem. And while I was praying in the temple, I entered another realm" 
Acts22:18 and saw him. He said to me, ‘Hurry and depart from Jerusalem quickly, for the people here will not receive the truths you share about me.’" 
Acts22:19 “ ‘But Lord,’ I argued, ‘they all know that I’m the one who went into our Jewish meetings to find those who believe in you and had them beaten and imprisoned." 
Acts22:20 When the blood of your witness Stephen was shed, I stood nearby in full approval of what was happening. I even guarded the cloaks of those who stoned him to death.’" 
Acts22:21 “Then he said to me, ‘Go at once, for I am sending you to preach to the non-Jewish nations.’  ”" 
Acts22:22 The crowd listened attentively to Paul up to this point. But when they heard this, all at once they erupted with loud shouts, saying, “Get rid of this man! Kill him! He doesn’t deserve to live!”" 
Acts22:23 While the crowd was screaming and yelling, removing their outer garments, and throwing handfuls of dust in the air in protest," 
Acts22:24 the commander had Paul brought back into the compound. He ordered that he be whipped with a lash and interrogated to find out what he said that so infuriated the crowd. 
Acts22:25 When the soldiers stretched Paul out with ropes, he said to the captain, who was standing nearby, “Is it legal for you to torture a Roman citizen like this, without a proper trial?”" 
Acts22:26 When the officer heard this, he immediately went to his commander and reported it, saying, “This man is a Roman citizen. What should we do now?”" 
Acts22:27 The commander came to Paul and asked him, “Tell me the truth, are you a Roman citizen?” “Yes I am,” he replied." 
Acts22:28 The commander said, “I had to purchase my citizenship with a great sum of money.” Paul replied, “I was born as a citizen!”" 
Acts22:29 All of the soldiers who were about to whip Paul backed away, because they were afraid of the consequences for tying up and holding a Roman citizen against his will." 
Acts22:30 The next day the commander ordered that the high priest and the supreme Jewish council be convened, because he wanted to find out exactly why the Jews were accusing Paul. So he had him untied and brought out to stand before them all." 
Acts23:1 Paul fixed his eyes on the members of the council and said, “My brothers, up to this day I have lived my life before God with a perfectly clear conscience.”" 
Acts23:2 At that moment, Ananias the high priest ordered those standing near Paul to strike him in the mouth." 
Acts23:3 Paul responded, “God is going to strike you, you corrupt pretender! For you sit there judging me according to the law, yet you broke the law when you ordered me to be struck.”" 
Acts23:4 Those standing near Paul said to him, “Do you dare insult the high priest of God?”" 
Acts23:5 Paul answered, “I had no idea, brothers, that he was the high priest. For the Scriptures say, ‘Do not curse the ruler of your people.’ ”" 
Acts23:6 Just then Paul realized that part of the council were Sadducees, who deny the resurrection of the dead, and others were of the separated ones. So he shouted, “My fellow Jews, I am a separated one, and the son of a separated one. That’s why I’m on trial here. It’s because of the hope I have that the dead will rise to live again.”" 
Acts23:7 When he said this, a heated argument started among them, dividing the council between the Sadducees and the separated ones." 
Acts23:8 Paul knew that the Sadducees teach there is no resurrection and do not believe in angels or spirits, but the separated ones believe in them all." 
Acts23:9 This sparked an even greater uproar among them. Finally, some of the separated ones who were religious scholars stood up and protested strongly, saying, “We find nothing wrong with this man. It could be that the Spirit has spoken to him or an angel came to him.”" 
Acts23:10 When the shouting match became intense, the commander, fearing they would tear Paul to pieces, intervened and ordered his soldiers to go in to their meeting and seize him and take him back to their headquarters." 
Acts23:11 That night our Lord appeared to Paul and stood before him and said, “Receive miracle power. For just as you have spoken for me in Jerusalem, you will also speak for me in Rome.”" 
Acts23:12 The next day, more than forty Jews formed a conspiracy and bound themselves under an oath to have no food or water until they had killed Paul." 
Acts23:13  
Acts23:14 They went to the high priest and the elders to divulge their plans and said to them, “We have united in a solemn oath not to eat or drink until Paul is dead." 
Acts23:15 So we urge you to have the commander bring him to you as though you were to determine his case with a more thorough inquiry. And we will kill him before he even gets here!” 
Acts23:16 When Paul’s nephew, his sister’s son, overheard their plot to kill him, he came to the headquarters and informed him of their plans." 
Acts23:17 Paul called for one of the captains and said, “Take this boy to the commander, for he has something important to report to him.”" 
Acts23:18 The captain took him to the commander and informed him, “Paul the prisoner asked me to bring this boy to you because he has something important for you to know.”" 
Acts23:19 The commander took him by the arm and led him aside in private and asked him, “What do you have to tell me?”" 
Acts23:20 He replied, “The Jews have plotted to kill Paul. Tomorrow they will ask you to bring him again to the supreme council under the pretense of wanting to question him further." 
Acts23:21 Don’t believe them, because they have forty men lying in wait to ambush Paul. These men have sworn an oath not to eat or drink until they have killed him. They’re all waiting for you to agree to their request so they can carry out their plot.”" 
Acts23:22 The commander dismissed Paul’s nephew after directing him, “Tell no one that you’ve reported these things to me.”" 
Acts23:23 Then he summoned two of his captains and said to them, “I want you to take Paul by horseback to Caesarea tonight at nine o’clock. Dispatch two hundred infantrymen, seventy horsemen, and another two hundred spearmen to provide security and deliver him safely to Governor Felix.”" 
Acts23:24  
Acts23:25 He sent with them a letter that read: 
Acts23:26 From Claudias Lysias, to His Excellency, Governor Felix: Dear Governor," 
Acts23:27 I rescued this man, who was seized by the Jews as they were about to put him to death. I intervened with my troops because I understand that he is a Roman citizen." 
Acts23:28 I was determined to learn exactly what charge they were accusing him of, so I brought him to stand before the Jewish supreme council." 
Acts23:29 I discovered that he was being accused with reference to violating controversial issues about their law, but I found no charge against him that deserved death or imprisonment." 
Acts23:30 When I was informed of an imminent plot to kill him, I sent him to you at once, and I have ordered his accusers to also come before you and state their charges against him. Sincerely, Claudius Lysias" 
Acts23:31 The soldiers carried out their orders and escorted Paul during the night until they reached the city of Antipatris. 
Acts23:32 The next day the horsemen continued on with Paul and the rest of the soldiers were dismissed to return to their headquarters. 
Acts23:33 Upon their arrival in Caesarea, they presented the letter to the governor and brought Paul before him." 
Acts23:34 After reading the letter, he asked Paul what province he was from. Paul answered, “Southeast Turkey.”" 
Acts23:35 The governor said, “I will give you a full hearing when your accusers arrive here also.” Then he ordered that Paul be kept under guard in Herod’s palace." 
Acts24:1 Five days later, Ananias the high priest arrived in Caesarea, accompanied by some Jewish elders and Tertullus, their prosecuting attorney. They were brought before the governor to present formal charges against Paul." 
Acts24:2 After Paul was summoned, Tertullus accused him, saying," 
Acts24:3 “Your Excellency Felix, under the shadow of your wise leadership we Jews have experienced a long period of peace. Because of your wise foresight, many reforms are coming to pass in our nation because of you, Most Honorable Felix. We deeply appreciate this and thank you very much." 
Acts24:4 “So that I won’t weary you with a lengthy presentation, I beg you to hear our brief summary, with your customary graciousness." 
Acts24:5 For we have found this man to be a contagious plague, a seditious man who continually stirs up riots among the Jews all over the world. He has become a ringleader of the sect known as the Nazarenes." 
Acts24:6 He has even attempted to desecrate our temple, which is why we had him arrested. We sought to judge him according to our law," 
Acts24:7 but Commander Lysias came with great force, snatched him away from our hands, and sent him here to you." 
Acts24:8 He has ordered his accusers to come to you so that you could interrogate him and ascertain for yourself that all these charges we are bringing against him are true.” 
Acts24:9 All the Jews present joined in the verbal attack, saying, “Yes, it’s true!”" 
Acts24:10 The governor motioned that it was Paul’s turn to speak, so he began to answer the accusations. “Because I know that you have been a judge over this nation for many years, I gladly respond in my defense." 
Acts24:11 You can easily verify that about twelve days ago, I went to Jerusalem to worship." 
Acts24:12 No one found me arguing with anyone or causing trouble among the people in the synagogues or in the temple or anywhere in the city. 
Acts24:13 They are completely unable to prove these accusations they make against me. 
Acts24:14 “But I do confess this to you: I worship the God of our Jewish ancestors as a follower of the Way, which they call a sect. For I believe everything that is written in the Law and the Prophets." 
Acts24:15 And my hope is in God, the same hope that even my accusers have embraced, the hope of a resurrection from the dead of both the righteous and the unrighteous." 
Acts24:16 That’s why I seek with all my heart to have a clean conscience toward God and toward others. 
Acts24:17 “After being away from Jerusalem for several years, I returned to bring to my people gifts for the poor." 
Acts24:18 I was in the temple, ritually purified and presenting my offering to God, when they seized me. I had no noisy crowd around me, and I wasn’t causing trouble or making any kind of disturbance whatsoever." 
Acts24:19 It was a group of Jews from western Turkey who were being unruly; they are the ones who should be here now to bring their charges if they have anything against me. 
Acts24:20 Or at least these men standing before you should clearly state what crime they found me guilty of when I stood before the Jewish supreme council," 
Acts24:21 unless it’s the one thing I passionately spoke out when I stood among them. I am on trial today only because of my belief in the resurrection of the dead.” 
Acts24:22 Felix, who was well acquainted with the facts about the Way, concluded the hearing with these words: “I will decide your case after Commander Lysias arrives.”" 
Acts24:23 He then ordered the captain to keep Paul in protective custody, but to give him a measure of freedom, he allowed any of his friends to visit him and help take care of his needs." 
Acts24:24 Several days later, Felix came back with his wife, Drusilla, who was Jewish. They sent for Paul and listened as he shared with them about faith in Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Acts24:25 As Paul spoke about true righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix became terrified and said, “Leave me for now. I’ll send for you later when it’s more convenient.”" 
Acts24:26 He expected to receive a bribe from Paul for his release, so for that reason he would send for Paul from time to time to converse with him." 
Acts24:27 Two years later, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. Before he left office he decided to leave Paul in prison as a political favor to the Jews." 
Acts25:1 Three days after Festus assumed his duties in Caesarea, he made the journey to Jerusalem." 
Acts25:2 Religious authorities and prominent leaders among the Jews brought formal charges against Paul before Festus. 
Acts25:3 They came asking him for a favor—that he would transfer Paul from Caesarea to Jerusalem—all the while plotting to ambush and kill Paul along the way. 
Acts25:4 Festus responded to their request by informing them that he planned to return to Caesarea shortly. 
Acts25:5 He told them, “Your leaders can come with me to Caesarea. If this man has broken any laws, you can bring charges against him there.”" 
Acts25:6 After Festus had stayed in Jerusalem no more than eight to ten days, he left for Caesarea. The day after he arrived, he convened the court and took his seat on the bench as judge over the proceedings. After he ordered Paul brought into the courtroom," 
Acts25:7 the Jewish leaders who came from Jerusalem encircled him and leveled against him many serious charges, which they were unable to substantiate." 
Acts25:8 In his defense, Paul said by the Holy Spirit, “I have done nothing wrong. I’ve committed no offense against Jewish law, or against the temple, or against Caesar.”" 
Acts25:9 Festus, because he wanted to curry favor with the Jews, asked Paul, “Are you willing to go with me to Jerusalem and be tried for these charges?”" 
Acts25:10 Paul replied, “I am standing here before Caesar’s tribunal. This is where I should be tried. As you well know, I have done no harm to the Jews." 
Acts25:11 If I have committed a crime worthy of death, I won’t seek to escape the death penalty. But if none of their charges are true, no one has the right to hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar!”" 
Acts25:12 After conferring with the members of his council, Festus replied, “Since you have appealed to Caesar, to Caesar you will go!”" 
Acts25:13 Several days later, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea for a visit with Festus." 
Acts25:14 During their stay of many days, Festus explained Paul’s situation to the king to get his opinion on the matter, saying, “There is a man here whom Felix left as a prisoner." 
Acts25:15 When I was in Jerusalem, the leading priests and Jewish elders pressed charges against him and demanded that I issue a guilty verdict against him." 
Acts25:16 I explained to them that it is not our Roman custom to condemn any man before he has an opportunity to face his accusers and present his defense. 
Acts25:17 So they returned here with me. I didn’t postpone the trial, but convened the court the very next day and ordered the man to be brought before me." 
Acts25:18 I listened to their accusations against him, but they were not what I expected to hear, for he had committed no crime." 
Acts25:19 Rather, their issues centered around disagreements with him over their religion, and about a dead man named Jesus, who Paul claimed was alive." 
Acts25:20 Because I was perplexed about how to proceed, I asked him if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem to stand trial on these charges." 
Acts25:21 When Paul appealed his case to the emperor for a decision, I ordered him to be held in custody until I could send him to Caesar.”" 
Acts25:22 King Agrippa said to Festus, “I would like to listen to this man myself.” “Tomorrow,” he replied, “you will have that opportunity.”" 
Acts25:23 The next day King Agrippa and Bernice entered the audience hall with much pomp and pageantry. Accompanying them were the senior military officers and prominent citizens. Festus ordered that Paul be brought before them all. 
Acts25:24 Then Festus said, “King Agrippa, and esteemed guests, here is the man whom the entire Jewish community, both here and in Jerusalem, has asked me to condemn to death. They have screamed and shouted at me, demanding that I end his life." 
Acts25:25 Yet upon investigation I couldn’t find one thing that he has done to deserve the death penalty. When he appealed to His Majesty the emperor, I determined to send him." 
Acts25:26 But I have nothing concrete to write to His Majesty, so I have now brought him before you all, and especially before you, King Agrippa. After this preliminary hearing I should have something to write," 
Acts25:27 for it seems absurd to me to send a prisoner without specifying the charges against him.” 
Acts26:1 King Agrippa said to Paul, “You may now state your case.” Paul motioned with his hand for silence, then began his defense." 
Acts26:2 “King Agrippa, I consider myself highly favored to stand before you today and answer the charges made against me by the Jews." 
Acts26:3 Because you, more than anyone else, are very familiar with the customs and controversies among the Jewish people, I now ask for your patience as I state my case." 
Acts26:4 “All the Jews know how I have been raised as a young man, living among my own people from the beginning and in Jerusalem." 
Acts26:5 If my accusers are willing to testify, they must admit that they’ve known me all along as a Pharisee, a member of the most strict and orthodox sect within Judaism." 
Acts26:6 And now, here I am on trial because I believe in the hope of God’s promises made to our ancestors." 
Acts26:7 This is the promise the twelve tribes of our people hope to see fulfilled as they sincerely strive to serve God with prayers night and day. “So, Your Highness, it is because of this hope that the Jews are accusing me." 
Acts26:8 And how should you judge this matter? Why is it that any of you think it unbelievable that God raises the dead? 
Acts26:9 I used to think that I should do all that was in my power to oppose the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
Acts26:10 And that’s exactly what I did in Jerusalem, for I not only imprisoned many of the holy believers by the authority of the chief priests, I also cast my vote against them, sentencing them to death." 
Acts26:11 I punished them often in every Jewish meeting hall and attempted to force them to blaspheme. I boiled with rage against them, hunting them down in distant foreign cities to persecute them." 
Acts26:12 “For that purpose I went to Damascus, with the authority granted to me by the chief priests." 
Acts26:13 While traveling on the road at noon, Your Highness, I saw a light brighter than the sun flashing from heaven all around me and those who were with me." 
Acts26:14 We all fell to the ground, and I heard a voice speaking to me in Aramaic, saying, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? You are only hurting yourself when you resist your calling.’" 
Acts26:15 “I asked, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ “And the Lord replied, ‘I am Jesus, the one you are persecuting." 
Acts26:16 Get up and stand to your feet, for I have appeared to you to reveal your destiny and to commission you as my assistant. You will be a witness to what you have seen and to the things I will reveal whenever I appear to you." 
Acts26:17 I will rescue you from the persecution of your own people and from the hostility of the other nations that I will send you to. 
Acts26:18 And you will open their eyes to their true condition, so that they may turn from darkness to the Light and from the power of Satan to the power of God. By placing their faith in me they will receive the total forgiveness of sins and be made holy, taking hold of the inheritance that I give to my children!’" 
Acts26:19 “So you see, King Agrippa, I have not been disobedient to what was revealed to me from heaven." 
Acts26:20 For it was in Damascus that I first declared the truth. And then I went to Jerusalem and throughout our nation, and even to other nations, telling people everywhere that they must repent and turn to God and demonstrate it with a changed life." 
Acts26:21 That’s why the Jews seized me when I was in the temple and tried to murder me. 
Acts26:22 “But in spite of all this, I have experienced the supernatural help of God up to this very moment. So I’m standing here saying the same thing that I’ve shared with everyone, from the least to the greatest. For I teach nothing but what" 
Acts26:23 Moses and the prophets have said was destined to happen: that our Messiah had to suffer and die and be the first to rise from the dead, to release the bright light of truth both to our people and to the non-Jewish nations.”" 
Acts26:24 Festus interrupted Paul’s defense, blurting out, “You’re out of your mind! All this great learning of yours is driving you crazy.”" 
Acts26:25 Paul replied, “No, Your Excellency Festus, I am not crazy. I speak the words of truth and reason." 
Acts26:26 King Agrippa, I know I can speak frankly and freely with you, for you understand these matters well, and none of these things have escaped your notice. After all, it’s not like it was a secret!" 
Acts26:27 Don’t you believe the prophets, King Agrippa? I know that you do.”" 
Acts26:28 Agrippa responded, “In such a short time you are nearly persuading me to become a Christian.”" 
Acts26:29 Paul replied, “I pray to God that both you and those here listening to me would one day become the same as I am, except, of course, without these chains.”" 
Acts26:30 The king, the governor, Bernice, and all the others got up." 
Acts26:31 As they were leaving the chamber, they commented to one another, “This man has done nothing that deserves death or even imprisonment.”" 
Acts26:32 King Agrippa said to Festus, “If he hadn’t appealed to Caesar, he could have been released.”" 
Acts27:1 When it was decided that we were to sail for Italy, Festus handed over Paul and a number of other prisoners to the custody of a Roman officer named Julius, a member of the imperial guard." 
Acts27:2 We went on board a ship from the port of Adramyttium that was planning to stop at various ports along the coast of southwestern Turkey. We put out to sea and were accompanied by Aristarchus from Thessalonica in Macedonia. 
Acts27:3 The next day we docked at Sidon, and Julius, being considerate of Paul, allowed him to disembark and be refreshed by his friends living there." 
Acts27:4 From there we put out to sea, but because the winds were against us, we sailed under the lee of Cyprus." 
Acts27:5 After sailing across the open sea off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we docked at the port of Myra in Lycia." 
Acts27:6 While we were there, the commanding officer found an Egyptian ship from Alexandria that was bound for Italy, and he put us on board." 
Acts27:7 We made little headway for several days, and with difficulty we made it to Knidus. The strong winds kept us from holding our course, so from there we sailed along the lee of Crete, opposite Cape Salome." 
Acts27:8 Hugging the coast, we struggled on to a place called Fair Havens, near the town of Lasea." 
Acts27:9 We remained there a long time, until we passed the day of the Jewish fast. Paul advised the frightened sailors that they should not put out to sea in such dangerous weather, saying," 
Acts27:10 “Men, I can see that our voyage would be disastrous for us and bring great loss, not only to our ship and cargo but also to our own lives. We should remain here.”" 
Acts27:11 But the officer in charge was persuaded more by the ship’s helmsman and captain than he was by Paul. 
Acts27:12 So the majority decided to put out to sea, since Fair Haven was an exposed harbor and not suitable to winter in. They had hoped to somehow reach the Cretan port of Phineka, which was a more suitable port because it was facing south." 
Acts27:13 When a gentle south breeze began to blow, they assumed they could make it, so they pulled up anchor and sailed close to Crete." 
Acts27:14 But it wasn’t long before the weather abruptly worsened and a storm of hurricane force called the Nor’easter tore across the island and blew us out to sea. 
Acts27:15 The sailors weren’t able to turn the ship into the wind, so they gave up and let it be driven by the gale winds." 
Acts27:16 As we passed to the lee of a small island called Cauda, we were barely able to get the ship’s lifeboat under control," 
Acts27:17 so the crew hoisted the dinghy aboard. The sailors used ropes and cables to undergird the ship, fearing they would run aground on the shoals of Syrtis. They lowered the drag anchor to slow its speed and let the ship be driven along." 
Acts27:18 The next day, because of being battered severely by the storm, the sailors jettisoned the cargo," 
Acts27:19 and by the third day they even threw the ship’s tackle and rigging overboard. 
Acts27:20 After many days of seeing neither the sun nor the stars, and with the violent storm continuing to rage against us, all hope of ever getting through it alive was abandoned." 
Acts27:21 After being without food for a long time, Paul stepped before them all and said, “Men, you should have obeyed me and avoided all of this pain and suffering by not leaving Crete." 
Acts27:22 Now listen to me. Don’t be depressed, for no one will perish—only the ship will be lost." 
Acts27:23 For God’s angel visited me last night, the angel of my God, the God I passionately serve. He came and stood in front of me" 
Acts27:24 and said, ‘Don’t be afraid, Paul. You are destined to stand trial before Caesar. And because of God’s favor on you, he has given you the lives of everyone who is sailing with you.’" 
Acts27:25 So men, keep up your courage! I know that God will protect you, just as he told me he would." 
Acts27:26 But we must run aground on some island to be saved.” 
Acts27:27 On the fourteenth night of being tossed about the Adriatic Sea, about midnight, the sailors sensed we were approaching land." 
Acts27:28 So they took soundings and discovered that the water was about 120 feet deep. After sailing a short distance, they again took soundings and found it was only ninety feet deep." 
Acts27:29 Fearing we would be dashed against a rocky coast, they dropped four anchors from the stern and waited for morning to come." 
Acts27:30 Some sailors pretended to go down to drop anchors from the bow when in fact they wanted to lower the lifeboat into the sea and escape, abandoning ship." 
Acts27:31 Paul said to the Roman officer and his soldiers, “Unless you all stay together onboard the ship, you have no chance of surviving.”" 
Acts27:32 At the moment they heard this, the soldiers cut the ropes of the dinghy and let it fall away." 
Acts27:33 Just before daybreak, Paul urged everyone to eat. He said, “Today makes two full weeks that you’ve been in fearful peril and hunger, unable to eat a thing." 
Acts27:34 Now eat and be nourished. For you’ll all come through this ordeal without a scratch.” 
Acts27:35 Then Paul took bread and gave thanks to God in front of them, broke it and began to eat." 
Acts27:36 There were 276 people who ate until they were filled, and were strengthened and encouraged." 
Acts27:37  
Acts27:38 After they were satisfied, they threw the grain into the sea to lighten the ship." 
Acts27:39 When daylight came, the sailors didn’t recognize the land, but they noticed a cove with a sandy beach, so they decided to run the ship ashore." 
Acts27:40 They cut away the anchors, leaving them in the sea, untied the ropes holding the rudders, and hoisted the foresail to the breeze to head for the beach." 
Acts27:41 But they drifted into the rocky shoals between two depths of the sea, causing the ship to flounder still a distance from shore. The bow was stuck fast, jammed on the rocks, while the stern was being smashed by the pounding of the surf." 
Acts27:42 The soldiers wanted to kill all the prisoners to prevent them from escaping. 
Acts27:43 But the Roman officer was determined to bring Paul safely through, so he foiled their attempts. He commanded the prisoners and crew who could swim to jump overboard and swim ashore." 
Acts27:44 The rest all managed to survive by clinging to planks and broken pieces of the ship, so that everyone scrambled to the shore uninjured." 
Acts28:1 After we had safely reached land, we discovered that the island we were on was Malta." 
Acts28:2 The people who lived there showed us extraordinary kindness, for they welcomed us around the fire they had built because it was cold and rainy." 
Acts28:3 When Paul had gathered an armful of brushwood and was setting it on the fire, a venomous snake was driven out by the heat and latched onto Paul’s hand with its fangs." 
Acts28:4 When the islanders saw the snake dangling from Paul’s hand, they said to one another, “No doubt about it, this guy is a murderer. Even though he escaped death at sea, Justice has now caught up with him!”" 
Acts28:5 But Paul shook the snake off, flung it into the fire, and suffered no harm at all." 
Acts28:6 Everyone watched him, expecting him to swell up or suddenly drop dead. After observing him for a long time and seeing that nothing unusual happened, they changed their minds and said, “He must be a god!”" 
Acts28:7 The Roman governor of the island, named Publius, had his estate nearby. He graciously welcomed us as his houseguests and showed us hospitality for the three days that we stayed with him." 
Acts28:8 His father lay sick in bed, suffering from fits of high fever and dysentery. So Paul went into his room, and after praying, placed his hands on him. He was instantly healed." 
Acts28:9 When the people of the island heard about this miracle, they brought all the sick to Paul, and they were also healed." 
Acts28:10 The islanders honored us greatly, and when we were preparing to set sail again, they gave us all the supplies we needed for our journey." 
Acts28:11 After three months we put out to sea on an Egyptian ship from Alexandria that had wintered at the island. The ship had carved on its prow as its emblem the “Heavenly Twins.” 
Acts28:12 When we landed at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days." 
Acts28:13 From there we set sail for the Italian city of Rhegium. The day after we landed, a south wind sprang up that enabled us to reach Puteoli in two days." 
Acts28:14 There we found some believers, who begged us to stay with them for a week. Afterward, we made our way to Rome." 
Acts28:15 When the believers were alerted we were coming, they came out to meet us at the Forum of Appius while we were still a great distance from Rome. Another group met us at the Three Taverns. When Paul saw the believers, his heart was greatly encouraged and he thanked God." 
Acts28:16 When we finally entered Rome, Paul was turned over to the authorities and was allowed to live where he pleased, with one soldier assigned to guard him." 
Acts28:17 After three days Paul called together all the prominent members of the Jewish community of Rome. When they had all assembled, Paul said to them, “My fellow Jews, while I was in Jerusalem, I was handed over as a prisoner of the Romans for prosecution, even though I had done nothing against any of our people or our Jewish customs." 
Acts28:17 After three days Paul called together all the prominent members of the Jewish community of Rome. When they had all assembled, Paul said to them, “My fellow Jews, while I was in Jerusalem, I was handed over as a prisoner of the Romans for prosecution, even though I had done nothing against any of our people or our Jewish customs." 
Acts28:18 After hearing my case, the Roman authorities wanted to release me since they found nothing that deserved a death sentence." 
Acts28:19 When the Jews objected to this, I felt it necessary, with no malice against them, to appeal to Caesar." 
Acts28:20 This, then, is the reason I’ve asked to speak with you, so that I could explain these things. It is only because I believe in the Hope of Israel that I am in chains before you.”" 
Acts28:21 They replied, “We haven’t received any letters from the Jews of Judea, nor has anyone come to us with a bad report about you." 
Acts28:21 They replied, “We haven’t received any letters from the Jews of Judea, nor has anyone come to us with a bad report about you." 
Acts28:22 But we are anxious to hear you present your views regarding this Christian sect we’ve been hearing about, for people everywhere are speaking against it.”" 
Acts28:23 So they set a time to meet with Paul. On that day an even greater crowd gathered where he was staying. From morning until evening Paul taught them, opening up the truths of God’s kingdom. With convincing arguments from both the Law and the Prophets, he tried to persuade them about Jesus." 
Acts28:24 Some were converted, but others refused to believe. They argued back and forth," 
Acts28:25 still unable to agree among themselves. They were about to leave when Paul made one last statement to them: “The Holy Spirit stated it well when he spoke to your ancestors through the prophet Isaiah: 
Acts28:26 ‘I send you to this people to say to them, “You will keep learning, but not understanding. You will keep staring at truth but not perceiving it." 
Acts28:27 For your hearts are hard and insensitive to me—you must be hard of hearing! For you’ve closed your eyes so that you won’t be troubled by the truth, and you’ve covered your ears so that you won’t have to listen and be pierced by what I say. For then you would have to respond and repent, so that I could heal your hearts.” ’" 
Acts28:28 “So listen well. This wonderful salvation given by God is now being presented to the non-Jewish nations, and they will believe and receive it!”" 
Acts28:29 Paul lived two more years in Rome, in his own rented quarters, welcoming all who came to visit." 
Acts28:30 He continued to proclaim to all the truths of God’s kingdom realm, teaching them about the Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, speaking triumphantly and without any restriction." 
Romans1:1 Paul, a loving and loyal servant of the Anointed One, Jesus. He called me to be his apostle and set me apart with a mission to reveal God’s wonderful gospel. (7) I write to all his beloved chosen ones in Rome, for you are also called as holy ones. May his joyous grace and total well-being, flowing from our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, rest upon you." 
Romans1:2 My commission is to preach the good news. Yet it is not entirely new, but the fulfillment of the hope promised to us through his prophets in the sacred Scriptures." 
Romans1:3 For the gospel is all about God’s Son. As a man he descended from David’s royal lineage," 
Romans1:4 but as the mighty Son of God he was raised from the dead and miraculously set apart with a display of triumphant power supplied by the Spirit of Holiness. And now Jesus is our Lord and our Messiah. 
Romans1:5 Through him grace cascaded into us, empowering us with the gift of apostleship, so that we can win people from every nation into the obedience that comes from faith, to bring honor to his name." 
Romans1:6 And you are among the chosen ones who are called to belong to Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Romans1:7  
Romans1:8 I give thanks to God for all of you, because the testimony of your faith is spreading throughout the world." 
Romans1:9 And God knows that I pray for you continually and at all times. For I serve and worship him with my spirit in the gospel of his Son. 
Romans1:10 My desire and constant prayer is that I would succeed in coming to you, according to the plan and timing of God." 
Romans1:11 I yearn to come and be face-to-face with you and get to know you. For I long to impart to you some spiritual gift that will empower you to stand strong in your faith. 
Romans1:12 Now, this means that when we come together and are side by side, something wonderful will be released. We can expect to be co-encouraged and co-comforted by each other’s faith!" 
Romans1:13 So, my dear brothers and sisters, please don’t interpret my failure to visit you as indifference, because many times I’ve intended to come but have not been released to do so up to now. For I long to enjoy a harvest of spiritual fruit among you, like I have experienced among the nations." 
Romans1:14 Love obligates me to preach to everyone, to those who are among the elite and those who are among the outcasts, to those who are wise and educated as well as to those who are foolish and unlearned." 
Romans1:15 This is why I am so excited about coming to preach the wonderful message of Jesus to you in Rome! 
Romans1:16 I refuse to be ashamed of the wonderful message of God’s liberating power unleashed in us through Christ! For I am thrilled to preach that everyone who believes is saved—the Jew first, and then people everywhere!" 
Romans1:17 This gospel unveils a continual revelation of God’s righteousness—a perfect righteousness given to us when we believe. And it moves us from receiving life through faith, to the power of living by faith. This is what the Scripture means when it says: “We are right with God through life-giving faith!”" 
Romans1:18 For God in heaven unveils his holy anger breaking forth against every form of sin, both toward ungodliness that lives in hearts and evil actions. For the wickedness of humanity deliberately smothers the truth and keeps people from acknowledging the truth about God." 
Romans1:19 In reality, the truth of God is known instinctively, for God has embedded this knowledge inside every human heart." 
Romans1:20 Opposition to truth cannot be excused on the basis of ignorance, because from the creation of the world, the invisible qualities of God’s nature have been made visible, such as his eternal power and transcendence. He has made his wonderful attributes easily perceived, for seeing the visible makes us understand the invisible. So then, this leaves everyone without excuse." 
Romans1:21 Throughout human history the fingerprints of God were upon them, yet they refused to honor him as God or even be thankful for his kindness. Instead, they entertained corrupt and foolish thoughts about what God was like. This left them with nothing but misguided hearts, steeped in moral darkness." 
Romans1:22 Although claiming to be wise, they were in fact shallow fools." 
Romans1:23 For only a fool would trade the unfading splendor of the immortal God to worship the fading image of other humans, idols made to look like people, animals, birds, and even creeping reptiles!" 
Romans1:24 This is why God lifted off his restraining hand and let them have full expression of their sinful and shameful desires. They were given over to moral depravity, dishonoring their bodies by sexual perversion among themselves—" 
Romans1:25 all because they traded the truth of God for a lie. They worshiped and served the things God made rather than the God who made all things—glory and praises to him forever and ever! Amen! 
Romans1:26 For this reason God gave them over to their own disgraceful and vile passions. Enflamed with lust for one another, men and women ignored the natural order and exchanged normal sexual relations for homosexuality. Women engaged in lesbian conduct, and men committed shameful acts with men, receiving in themselves the due penalty for their deviation." 
Romans1:27  
Romans1:28 And because they thought it was worthless to embrace the true knowledge of God, God gave them over to a worthless mind-set, to break all rules of proper conduct." 
Romans1:29 Their sinful lives became full of every kind of evil, wicked schemes, greed, and cruelty. Their hearts overflowed with jealous cravings, and with conflict and strife, which drove them into hateful arguments and murder. They are deceitful liars full of hostility. They are gossips" 
Romans1:30 who love to spread malicious slander. With inflated egos they hurl hateful insults at God, yet they are nothing more than arrogant boasters. They are rebels against their parents and totally immoral." 
Romans1:31 They are senseless, faithless, ruthless, heartless, and completely merciless." 
Romans1:32 Although they are fully aware of God’s laws and proper order, and knowing that those who do all of these things deserve to die, yet they still go headlong into darkness, encouraging others to do the same and applauding them when they do!" 
Romans2:1 No matter who you are, before you judge the wickedness of others, you had better remember this: you are also without excuse, for you too are guilty of the same kind of things! When you judge others, and then do the same things they do, you condemn yourself." 
Romans2:2 We know that God’s judgment falls upon those who practice these things. God is always right, because he has all the facts." 
Romans2:3 And no matter who you think you are, when you judge others who do these things and then do the same things yourself, what makes you think that you will escape God’s judgment?" 
Romans2:4 Do the riches of his extraordinary kindness make you take him for granted and despise him? Haven’t you experienced how kind and understanding he has been to you? Don’t mistake his tolerance for acceptance. Do you realize that all the wealth of his extravagant kindness is meant to melt your heart and lead you into repentance? 
Romans2:5 But because of your calloused heart and refusal to change direction, you are piling up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath, when God’s righteous judgment is revealed." 
Romans2:6 For: He will give to each one in return for what he has done. 
Romans2:7 For those living in constant goodness and doing what pleases him, seeking an unfading glory and honor and imperishable virtue, will experience eternal life." 
Romans2:8 But those governed by selfishness and self-promotion, whose hearts are unresponsive to God’s truth and would rather embrace unrighteousness, will experience the fullness of wrath." 
Romans2:9 Anyone who does evil can expect tribulation and distress—to the Jew first and also to the non-Jew. 
Romans2:10 But when we do what pleases God, we can expect unfading glory, true honor, and a continual peace—to the Jew first and also to the non-Jew," 
Romans2:11 for God sees us all without partiality. 
Romans2:12 When people who have never been exposed to the laws of Moses commit sin, they will still perish for what they do. And those who are under the law of Moses and fail to obey it are condemned by the law." 
Romans2:13 For it’s not merely knowing the law that makes you right with God, but doing all that the law says that will cause God to pronounce you innocent." 
Romans2:14 For example, whenever people who don’t possess the law as their birthright commit sin, it still confirms that a “law” is present in their conscience. For when they instinctively do what the law requires, that becomes a “law” to govern them, even though they don’t have Mosaic law." 
Romans2:15 It demonstrates that the requirements of the law are woven into their hearts. They know what is right and wrong, for their conscience validates this “law” in their heart. Their thoughts correct them in one instance and commend them in another." 
Romans2:16 So this judgment will be revealed on the day when God, through Jesus the Messiah, judges the hidden secrets of people’s hearts. And their response to my gospel will be the standard of judgment used in that day." 
Romans2:17 Now, you claim to be a Jew because you lean upon your trust in the law and boast in your relationship with God." 
Romans2:18 And you claim to know the will of God, and to have the moral high ground because you’ve been taught the law of Moses." 
Romans2:19 You are also confident that you are a qualified guide to those who are “blind,” a shining light to those who live in darkness." 
Romans2:20 You are confident that you are a true teacher of the foolish and immature, all because you have the treasury of truth and knowledge in the law of Moses." 
Romans2:21 So let me ask you this: Why don’t you practice what you preach? You preach, “Don’t steal!” but are you a thief?" 
Romans2:22 You are swift to tell others, “Don’t commit adultery!” but are you guilty of adultery? You say, “I hate idolatry and false gods!” but do you withhold from the true God what is due him?" 
Romans2:23 Even though you boast in the law, you dishonor God, the Lawgiver, when you break it!" 
Romans2:24 For your actions seem to fulfill what is written: “God’s precious name is cursed among the nations because of you.” 
Romans2:25 You trust in the covenant sign of circumcision, yet circumcision only has value if you faithfully keep the teachings of the law. But if you violate the law, you have invalidated your circumcision." 
Romans2:26 And if the uncircumcised one faithfully keeps the law, won’t his obedience make him more “Jewish” than the actual rite of circumcision?" 
Romans2:27 And won’t the one who has never had the knife cut his foreskin be your judge when you break the law? 
Romans2:28 You are not a Jew if it’s only superficial—for it’s more than the surgical cut of a knife that makes you Jewish. 
Romans2:29 But you are Jewish because of the inward act of spiritual circumcision—a radical change that lays bare your heart. It’s not by the principle of the written code, but by power of the Holy Spirit. For then your praise will not come from people, but from God himself!" 
Romans3:1 So then what is the importance of circumcision, and what advantage is there of being a Jew?" 
Romans3:2 Actually, there are numerous advantages. Most important, God distinguished the Jews from all other people by entrusting them with the revelation of his prophetic promises." 
Romans3:3 But what if some were unfaithful to their divine calling? Does their unbelief weaken God’s faithfulness? 
Romans3:4 Absolutely not! God will always be proven faithful and true to his word, while people are proven to be liars. This will fulfill what was written in the Scriptures: Your words will always be vindicated and you will rise victorious when you are being tried by your critics!" 
Romans3:5 But what if our wrong shows how right God is? Doesn’t our bad serve the purpose of making God look good? (Of course, I’m only speaking from a human viewpoint.) Would that infer that God is unfair when he displays his anger against wrongdoing?" 
Romans3:6 Absolutely not! For if that were the case, how could God be the righteous judge of all the earth?" 
Romans3:7 So, if my lie brings into sharp contrast the brightness of God’s truth, and if my lie accentuates his glory, then why should I be condemned as a sinner?" 
Romans3:8 Is it proper for us to sin, just so good things may come? May it never be! Yet there are some who slander us and claim that is what we teach. They deserve to be condemned for even saying it!" 
Romans3:9 So, are we to conclude then that we Jews are superior to all others? Certainly not! For we have already proven that both Jews and gentiles are all under the bondage of sin." 
Romans3:10 And the Scriptures agree, for it is written: There is no one who always does what is right, no, not even one!" 
Romans3:11 There is no one with true spiritual insight, and there is no one who seeks after God alone." 
Romans3:12 All have deliberately wandered from God’s ways. All have become depraved and unfit. Kindness has disappeared from them all, not even one is good." 
Romans3:13 Their words release a stench, like the smell of death—foul and filthy! Deceitful lies roll off their tongues. The venom of a viper drips from their lips." 
Romans3:14 Bitter profanity flows from their mouths, only meant to cut and harm." 
Romans3:15 They are infatuated with violence and murder. 
Romans3:16 They release ruin and misery wherever they go. 
Romans3:17 They never experience the path of peace. 
Romans3:18 They shut their eyes to the awe-inspiring God! 
Romans3:19 Now, we realize that everything the law says is addressed to those who are under its authority. This is for two reasons: So that every excuse will be silenced, with no boasting of innocence. And so that the entire world will be held accountable to God’s standards." 
Romans3:20 For by the merit of observing the law no one earns the status of being declared righteous before God, for it is the law that fully exposes and unmasks the reality of sin." 
Romans3:21 But now, independently of the law, the righteousness of God is tangible and brought to light through Jesus, the Anointed One. This is the righteousness that the Scriptures prophesied would come. It is God’s righteousness made visible through the faithfulness of Jesus Christ. And now all who believe in him receive that gift. For there is really no difference between us," 
Romans3:22  
Romans3:23 for we all have sinned and are in need of the glory of God. 
Romans3:24 Yet through his powerful declaration of acquittal, God freely gives away his righteousness. His gift of love and favor now cascades over us, all because Jesus, the Anointed One, has liberated us from the guilt, punishment, and power of sin!" 
Romans3:25 Jesus’ God-given destiny was to be the sacrifice to take away sins, and now he is our mercy seat because of his death on the cross. We come to him for mercy, for God has made a provision for us to be forgiven by faith in the sacred blood of Jesus. This is the perfect demonstration of God’s justice, because until now, he had been so patient—holding back his justice out of his tolerance for us. So he covered over the sins of those who lived prior to Jesus’ sacrifice." 
Romans3:26 And when the season of tolerance came to an end, there was only one possible way for God to give away his righteousness and still be true to both his justice and his mercy—to offer up his own Son. So now, because we stand on the faithfulness of Jesus, God declares us righteous in his eyes!" 
Romans3:27 Where, then, is there room for boasting? Do our works bring God’s acceptance? Not at all! It was not our works of keeping the law but our faith in his finished work that makes us right with God." 
Romans3:28 So our conclusion is this: God’s wonderful declaration that we are righteous in his eyes can only come when we put our faith in Christ, and not in keeping the law." 
Romans3:29 After all, is God the God of the Jews only, or is he equally the God for all of humanity? Of course, he’s the God of all people!" 
Romans3:30 Since there is only one God, he will treat us all the same—he eliminates our guilt and makes us right with him by faith no matter who we are." 
Romans3:31 Does emphasizing our faith invalidate the law? Absolutely not. Instead, our faith establishes the role the law should rightfully have." 
Romans4:1 Let me use Abraham as an example. It is clear that humanly speaking, he was the founder of Judaism. What was his experience of being made right with God?" 
Romans4:2 Was it by his good works of keeping the law? No. For if it was by the things he did, he would have something to boast about, but no one boasts before God." 
Romans4:3 Listen to what the Scriptures say: Because Abraham believed God’s words, his faith transferred God’s righteousness into his account." 
Romans4:4 When people work, they earn wages. It can’t be considered a free gift, because they earned it." 
Romans4:5 But no one earns God’s righteousness. It can only be transferred when we no longer rely on our own works, but believe in the one who powerfully declares the ungodly to be righteous in his eyes. It is faith that transfers God’s righteousness into your account!" 
Romans4:6 Even King David himself speaks to us regarding the complete wholeness that comes inside a person when God’s powerful declaration of righteousness is heard over our life. Apart from our works, God’s work is enough." 
Romans4:7 Here’s what David says: What happy fulfillment is ahead for those whose rebellion has been forgiven and whose sins are covered by blood. 
Romans4:8 What happy progress comes to them when they hear the Lord speak over them, “I will never hold your sins against you!”" 
Romans4:9 Now, think about it. Does this happiness come only to the Jews, or is it available to all who believe? Our answer is this: faith was credited to Abraham as God’s righteousness!" 
Romans4:10 How did he receive this gift of righteousness? Was he circumcised at the time God accepted him, or was he still uncircumcised? Clearly, he was an uncircumcised gentile when God said this of him!" 
Romans4:11 It was later that he received the external sign of circumcision as a seal to confirm that God had already transferred his righteousness to him by faith, while he was still uncircumcised. So now this qualifies him to become the father of all who believe among the non-Jewish people. And like their “father of faith,” Abraham, God also transfers his righteousness to them by faith." 
Romans4:12 Yes, Abraham is obviously the true father of faith for the Jewish people who are not only circumcised but who walk in the way of faith that our father Abraham displayed before his circumcision." 
Romans4:13 God promised Abraham and his descendants that they would have an heir who would reign over the world. This royal promise was not fulfilled because Abraham kept all the law, but through the righteousness that was transferred by faith." 
Romans4:14 For if keeping the law earns the inheritance, then faith is robbed of its power and the promise becomes useless." 
Romans4:15 For the law provokes punishment, and where no law exists there cannot be a violation of the law." 
Romans4:16 The promise depends on faith so that it can be experienced as a grace-gift, and now it extends to all the descendants of Abraham. This promise is not only meant for those who obey the law, but also to those who enter into the faith of Abraham, the father of us all." 
Romans4:17 That’s what the Scripture means when it says: “I have made you the father of many nations.” He is our example and father, for in God’s presence he believed that God can raise the dead and call into being things that don’t even exist yet." 
Romans4:18 Against all odds, when it looked hopeless, Abraham believed the promise and expected God to fulfill it. He took God at his word, and as a result he became the father of many nations. God’s declaration over him came to pass: “Your descendants will be so many that they will be impossible to count!”" 
Romans4:19 In spite of being nearly one hundred years old when the promise of having a son was made, his faith was so strong that it could not be undermined by the fact that he and Sarah were incapable of conceiving a child." 
Romans4:20 He never stopped believing God’s promise, for he was made strong in his faith to father a child. And because he was mighty in faith and convinced that God had all the power needed to fulfill his promises, Abraham glorified God!" 
Romans4:21  
Romans4:22 So now you can see why Abraham’s faith was credited to his account as righteousness before God. 
Romans4:23 And this declaration was not just spoken over Abraham," 
Romans4:24 but also over us. For when we believe and embrace the one who brought our Lord Jesus back to life, perfect righteousness will be credited to our account as well." 
Romans4:25 Jesus was handed over to be crucified for the forgiveness of our sins and was raised back to life to prove that he had made us right with God! 
Romans5:1 Our faith in Jesus transfers God’s righteousness to us and he now declares us flawless in his eyes. This means we can now enjoy true and lasting peace with God, all because of what our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, has done for us." 
Romans5:2 Our faith guarantees us permanent access into this marvelous kindness that has given us a perfect relationship with God. What incredible joy bursts forth within us as we keep on celebrating our hope of experiencing God’s glory! 
Romans5:3 But that’s not all! Even in times of trouble we have a joyful confidence, knowing that our pressures will develop in us patient endurance." 
Romans5:4 And patient endurance will refine our character, and proven character leads us back to hope." 
Romans5:5 And this hope is not a disappointing fantasy, because we can now experience the endless love of God cascading into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who lives in us!" 
Romans5:6 For when the time was right, the Anointed One came and died to demonstrate his love for sinners who were entirely helpless, weak, and powerless to save themselves." 
Romans5:7 Now, would anyone dare to die for the sake of a wicked person? We can all understand if someone was willing to die for a truly noble person." 
Romans5:8 But Christ proved God’s passionate love for us by dying in our place while we were still lost and ungodly! 
Romans5:9 And there is still much more to say of his unfailing love for us! For through the blood of Jesus we have heard the powerful declaration, “You are now righteous in my sight.” And because of the sacrifice of Jesus, you will never experience the wrath of God." 
Romans5:10 So if while we were still enemies, God fully reconciled us to himself through the death of his Son, then something greater than friendship is ours. Now that we are at peace with God, and because we share in his resurrection life, how much more we will be rescued from sin’s dominion!" 
Romans5:11 And even more than that, we overflow with triumphant joy in our new relationship of living reconciled to God—all because of Jesus Christ!" 
Romans5:12 When Adam sinned, the entire world was affected. Sin entered human experience, and death was the result. And so death followed this sin, casting its shadow over all humanity, because all have sinned." 
Romans5:13 Sin was in the world before Moses gave the written law, but it was not charged against them where no law existed." 
Romans5:14 Yet death reigned as king from Adam to Moses even though they hadn’t broken a command the way Adam had. The first man, Adam, was a picture of the Messiah, who was to come." 
Romans5:15 Now, there is no comparison between Adam’s transgression and the gracious gift that we experience. For the magnitude of the gift far outweighs the crime. It’s true that many died because of one man’s transgression, but how much greater will God’s grace and his gracious gift of acceptance overflow to many because of what one man, Jesus, the Messiah, did for us!" 
Romans5:16 And this free-flowing gift imparts to us much more than what was given to us through the one who sinned. For because of one transgression, we are all facing a death sentence with a verdict of “Guilty!” But this gracious gift leaves us free from our many failures and brings us into the perfect righteousness of God—acquitted with the words “Not guilty!”" 
Romans5:17 Death once held us in its grip, and by the blunder of one man, death reigned as king over humanity. But now, how much more are we held in the grip of grace and continue reigning as kings in life, enjoying our regal freedom through the gift of perfect righteousness in the one and only Jesus, the Messiah!" 
Romans5:18 In other words, just as condemnation came upon all people through one transgression, so through one righteous act of Jesus’ sacrifice, the perfect righteousness that makes us right with God and leads us to a victorious life is now available to all." 
Romans5:19 One man’s disobedience opened the door for all humanity to become sinners. So also one man’s obedience opened the door for many to be made perfectly right with God and acceptable to him. 
Romans5:20 So then, the law was introduced into God’s plan to bring the reality of human sinfulness out of hiding. And yet, wherever sin increased, there was more than enough of God’s grace to triumph all the more!" 
Romans5:21 And just as sin reigned through death, so also this sin-conquering grace will reign as king through righteousness, imparting eternal life through Jesus, our Lord and Messiah!" 
Romans6:1 So what do we do, then? Do we persist in sin so that God’s kindness and grace will increase?" 
Romans6:2 What a terrible thought! We have died to sin once and for all, as a dead man passes away from this life. So how could we live under sin’s rule a moment longer?" 
Romans6:3 Or have you forgotten that all of us who were immersed into union with Jesus, the Anointed One, were immersed into union with his death?" 
Romans6:4 Sharing in his death by our baptism means that we were co-buried with him, so that when the Father’s glory raised Christ from the dead, we were also raised with him. We have been co-resurrected with him so that we could be empowered to walk in the freshness of new life." 
Romans6:5 For since we are permanently grafted into him to experience a death like his, then we are permanently grafted into him to experience a resurrection like his and the new life that it imparts." 
Romans6:6 Could it be any clearer that our former identity is now and forever deprived of its power? For we were co-crucified with him to dismantle the stronghold of sin within us, so that we would not continue to live one moment longer submitted to sin’s power." 
Romans6:7 Obviously, a dead person is incapable of sinning." 
Romans6:8 And if we were co-crucified with the Anointed One, we know that we will also share in the fullness of his life." 
Romans6:9 And we know that since the Anointed One has been raised from the dead to die no more, his resurrection life has vanquished death and its power over him is finished." 
Romans6:10 For by his sacrifice he died to sin’s power once and for all, but he now lives continuously for the Father’s pleasure." 
Romans6:11 So let it be the same way with you! Since you are now joined with him, you must continually view yourselves as dead and unresponsive to sin’s appeal while living daily for God’s pleasure in union with Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Romans6:12 Sin is a dethroned monarch; so you must no longer give it an opportunity to rule over your life, controlling how you live and compelling you to obey its desires and cravings." 
Romans6:13 So then, refuse to answer its call to surrender your body as a tool for wickedness. Instead, passionately answer God’s call to keep yielding your body to him as one who has now experienced resurrection life! You live now for his pleasure, ready to be used for his noble purpose." 
Romans6:14 Remember this: sin will not conquer you, for God already has! You are not governed by law but governed by the reign of the grace of God." 
Romans6:15 What are we to do, then? Should we sin to our hearts’ content since there’s no law to condemn us anymore? What a terrible thought!" 
Romans6:16 Don’t you realize that grace frees you to choose your own master? But choose carefully, for you surrender yourself to become a servant—bound to the one you choose to obey. If you choose to love sin, it will become your master, and it will own you and reward you with death. But if you choose to love and obey God, he will lead you into perfect righteousness." 
Romans6:17 And thanks be to God, for in the past you were servants of sin, but now your obedience is heart deep, and your life is being molded by truth through the teaching you are devoted to." 
Romans6:18 And now you celebrate your freedom from your former master—sin. You’ve left its bondage, and now God’s perfect righteousness holds power over you as his loving servants." 
Romans6:19 I’ve used the familiar terms of a “servant” and a “master” to compensate for your weakness to understand. For just as you surrendered your bodies and souls to impurity and lawlessness, which only brought more lawlessness into your lives, so now surrender yourselves as servants of righteousness, which brings you deeper into true holiness." 
Romans6:20 For when you were bound as servants to sin, you lived your lives free from any obligation to righteousness." 
Romans6:21 So tell me, what benefit ensued from doing those things that you’re now ashamed of? It left you with nothing but a legacy of shame and death." 
Romans6:22 But now, as God’s loving servants, you live in joyous freedom from the power of sin. So consider the benefits you now enjoy—you are brought deeper into the experience of true holiness that ends with eternal life!" 
Romans6:23 For sin’s meager wages is death, but God’s lavish gift is life eternal, found in your union with our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Romans7:1 I write to you, dear brothers and sisters, who are familiar with the law. Don’t you know that when a person dies, it ends his obligation to the law?" 
Romans7:2 For example, a married couple is bound by the law to remain together until separated by death. But when one spouse dies, the other is released from the law of the marriage." 
Romans7:3 So then if a wife is joined to another man while still married, she commits adultery. But if her husband dies, she is obviously free from the marriage contract and may marry another man without being charged with adultery." 
Romans7:4 So, my dear brothers and sisters, the same principle applies to your relationship with God. For you died to your first husband, the law, by being co-crucified with the body of the Messiah. So you are now free to “marry” another—the one who was raised from the dead so that you may now bear spiritual fruit for God." 
Romans7:5 When we were merely living natural lives, the law, through defining sin, actually awakened sinful desires within us, which resulted in bearing the fruit of death." 
Romans7:6 But now that we have been fully released from the power of the law, we are dead to what once controlled us. And our lives are no longer motivated by the obsolete way of following the written code, so that now we may serve God by living in the freshness of a new life in the power of the Holy Spirit." 
Romans7:7 So, what shall we say about all this? Am I suggesting that the law is sinful? Of course not! In fact, it was the law that gave us the clear definition of sin. For example, when the law said, “Do not covet,” it became the catalyst to see how wrong it was for me to crave what belongs to someone else." 
Romans7:8 It was through God’s commandment that sin was awakened in me and built its base of operation within me to stir up every kind of wrong desire. For in the absence of the law, sin hides dormant." 
Romans7:9 I once lived without a clear understanding of the law, but when I heard God’s commandments, sin sprang to life and brought with it a death sentence. The commandment that was intended to bring life brought me death instead." 
Romans7:10  
Romans7:11 Sin, by means of the commandment, built a base of operation within me, to overpower me and put me to death." 
Romans7:12 So then, we have to conclude that the problem is not with the law itself, for the law is holy and its commandments are correct and for our good." 
Romans7:13 So, did something meant to be good become death to me? Certainly not! It was not the law but sin unmasked that produced my spiritual death. The sacred commandment merely uncovered the evil of sin so it could be seen for what it is." 
Romans7:14 For we know that the law is divinely inspired and comes from the spiritual realm, but I am a human being made of flesh and trafficked as a slave under sin’s authority." 
Romans7:15 I’m a mystery to myself, for I want to do what is right, but end up doing what my moral instincts condemn." 
Romans7:16 And if my behavior is not in line with my desire, my conscience still confirms the excellence of the law." 
Romans7:17 And now I realize that it is no longer my true self doing it, but the unwelcome intruder of sin in my humanity." 
Romans7:18 For I know that nothing good lives within the flesh of my fallen humanity. The longings to do what is right are within me, but willpower is not enough to accomplish it." 
Romans7:19 My lofty desires to do what is good are dashed when I do the things I want to avoid. 
Romans7:20 So if my behavior contradicts my desires to do good, I must conclude that it’s not my true identity doing it, but the unwelcome intruder of sin hindering me from being who I really am." 
Romans7:21 Through my experience of this principle, I discover that even when I want to do good, evil is ready to sabotage me." 
Romans7:22 Truly, deep within my true identity, I love to do what pleases God." 
Romans7:23 But I discern another power operating in my humanity, waging a war against the moral principles of my conscience and bringing me into captivity as a prisoner to the “law” of sin—this unwelcome intruder in my humanity." 
Romans7:24 What an agonizing situation I am in! So who has the power to rescue this miserable man from the unwelcome intruder of sin and death? 
Romans7:25 I give all my thanks to God, for his mighty power has finally provided a way out through our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One! So if left to myself, the flesh is aligned with the law of sin, but now my renewed mind is fixed on and submitted to God’s righteous principles." 
Romans8:1 So now the case is closed. There remains no accusing voice of condemnation against those who are joined in life-union with Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Romans8:2 For the “law” of the Spirit of life flowing through the anointing of Jesus has liberated us from the “law” of sin and death. 
Romans8:3 For God achieved what the law was unable to accomplish, because the law was limited by the weakness of human nature. Yet God sent us his Son in human form to identify with human weakness. Clothed with humanity, God’s Son gave his body to be the sin-offering so that God could once and for all condemn the guilt and power of sin." 
Romans8:4 So now every righteous requirement of the law can be fulfilled through the Anointed One living his life in us. And we are free to live, not according to our flesh, but by the dynamic power of the Holy Spirit!" 
Romans8:5 Those who are motivated by the flesh only pursue what benefits themselves. But those who live by the impulses of the Holy Spirit are motivated to pursue spiritual realities. 
Romans8:6 For the sense and reason of the flesh is death, but the mind-set controlled by the Spirit finds life and peace." 
Romans8:7 In fact, the mind-set focused on the flesh fights God’s plan and refuses to submit to his direction, because it cannot!" 
Romans8:8 For no matter how hard they try, God finds no pleasure with those who are controlled by the flesh." 
Romans8:9 But when the Spirit of Christ empowers your life, you are not dominated by the flesh but by the Spirit. And if you are not joined to the Spirit of the Anointed One, you are not of him." 
Romans8:10 Now Christ lives his life in you! And even though your body may be dead because of the effects of sin, his life-giving Spirit imparts life to you because you are fully accepted by God." 
Romans8:11 Yes, God raised Jesus to life! And since God’s Spirit of Resurrection lives in you, he will also raise your dying body to life by the same Spirit that breathes life into you!" 
Romans8:12 So then, beloved ones, the flesh has no claims on us at all, and we have no further obligation to live in obedience to it." 
Romans8:13 For when you live controlled by the flesh, you are about to die. But if the life of the Spirit puts to death the corrupt ways of the flesh, we then taste his abundant life." 
Romans8:14 The mature children of God are those who are moved by the impulses of the Holy Spirit. 
Romans8:15 And you did not receive the “spirit of religious duty,” leading you back into the fear of never being good enough. But you have received the “Spirit of full acceptance,” enfolding you into the family of God. And you will never feel orphaned, for as he rises up within us, our spirits join him in saying the words of tender affection, “Beloved Father!”" 
Romans8:16 For the Holy Spirit makes God’s fatherhood real to us as he whispers into our innermost being, “You are God’s beloved child!”" 
Romans8:17 And since we are his true children, we qualify to share all his treasures, for indeed, we are heirs of God himself. And since we are joined to Christ, we also inherit all that he is and all that he has. We will experience being co-glorified with him provided that we accept his sufferings as our own." 
Romans8:18 I am convinced that any suffering we endure is less than nothing compared to the magnitude of glory that is about to be unveiled within us. 
Romans8:19 The entire universe is standing on tiptoe, yearning to see the unveiling of God’s glorious sons and daughters!" 
Romans8:20 For against its will the universe itself has had to endure the empty futility resulting from the consequences of human sin. But now, with eager expectation," 
Romans8:21 all creation longs for freedom from its slavery to decay and to experience with us the wonderful freedom coming to God’s children. 
Romans8:22 To this day we are aware of the universal agony and groaning of creation, as if it were in the contractions of labor for childbirth." 
Romans8:23 And it’s not just creation. We who have already experienced the firstfruits of the Spirit also inwardly groan as we passionately long to experience our full status as God’s sons and daughters—including our physical bodies being transformed. 
Romans8:24 For this is the hope of our salvation. But hope means that we must trust and wait for what is still unseen. For why would we need to hope for something we already have? 
Romans8:25 So because our hope is set on what is yet to be seen, we patiently keep on waiting for its fulfillment." 
Romans8:26 And in a similar way, the Holy Spirit takes hold of us in our human frailty to empower us in our weakness. For example, at times we don’t even know how to pray, or know the best things to ask for. But the Holy Spirit rises up within us to super-intercede on our behalf, pleading to God with emotional sighs too deep for words." 
Romans8:27 God, the searcher of the heart, knows fully our longings, yet he also understands the desires of the Spirit, because the Holy Spirit passionately pleads before God for us, his holy ones, in perfect harmony with God’s plan and our destiny." 
Romans8:28 So we are convinced that every detail of our lives is continually woven together for good, for we are his lovers who have been called to fulfill his designed purpose." 
Romans8:29 For he knew all about us before we were born and he destined us from the beginning to share the likeness of his Son. This means the Son is the oldest among a vast family of brothers and sisters who will become just like him. 
Romans8:30 Having determined our destiny ahead of time, he called us to himself and transferred his perfect righteousness to everyone he called. And those who possess his perfect righteousness he co-glorified with his Son!" 
Romans8:31 So, what does all this mean? If God has determined to stand with us, tell me, who then could ever stand against us?" 
Romans8:32 For God has proved his love by giving us his greatest treasure, the gift of his Son. And since God freely offered him up as the sacrifice for us all, he certainly won’t withhold from us anything else he has to give." 
Romans8:33 Who then would dare to accuse those whom God has chosen in love to be his? God himself is the judge who has issued his final verdict over them—“Not guilty!” 
Romans8:34 Who then is left to condemn us? Certainly not Jesus, the Anointed One! For he gave his life for us, and even more than that, he has conquered death and is now risen, exalted, and enthroned by God at his right hand. So how could he possibly condemn us since he is continually praying for our triumph?" 
Romans8:35 Who could ever divorce us from the endless love of God’s Anointed One? Absolutely no one! For nothing in the universe has the power to diminish his love toward us. Troubles, pressures, and problems are unable to come between us and heaven’s love. What about persecutions, deprivations, dangers, and death threats? No, for they are all impotent to hinder omnipotent love," 
Romans8:36 even though it is written: All day long we face death threats for your sake, God. We are considered to be nothing more than sheep to be slaughtered!" 
Romans8:37 Yet even in the midst of all these things, we triumph over them all, for God has made us to be more than conquerors, and his demonstrated love is our glorious victory over everything!" 
Romans8:38 So now I live with the confidence that there is nothing in the universe with the power to separate us from God’s love. I’m convinced that his love will triumph over death, life’s troubles, fallen angels, or dark rulers in the heavens. There is nothing in our present or future circumstances that can weaken his love." 
Romans8:39 There is no power above us or beneath us—no power that could ever be found in the universe that can distance us from God’s passionate love, which is lavished upon us through our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One!" 
Romans9:1 O Israel, my Jewish family, I feel such great sorrow and heartache for you that never leaves me! God knows these deep feelings within me as I long for you to come to faith in the Anointed One. My conscience will not let me speak anything but the truth." 
Romans9:2  
Romans9:3 For my grief is so intense that I wish that I would be accursed, cut off from the Messiah, if it would mean that you, my people, would come to faith in him! You are Israelites, my fellow citizens, and God’s chosen people. To you belong God’s glorious presence, the covenants, the Torah, the temple with its required sacrifices, and the promises of God." 
Romans9:4  
Romans9:5 We trace our beginnings back to the patriarchs, and through their bloodline is the genealogy of the Messiah, who is God over everything. May he be praised through endless ages! Amen!" 
Romans9:6 Clearly, God has not failed to fulfill his promises to Israel, for that will never happen! But not everyone who has descended from Israel belongs to Israel." 
Romans9:7 Physical descent from Abraham doesn’t guarantee the inheritance, because God has said: “Through Isaac your descendants will be counted as part of your lineage.”" 
Romans9:8 This confirms that it is not merely the natural offspring of Abraham who are considered the children of God; rather, the children born because of God’s promise are counted as descendants." 
Romans9:9 For God promised Abraham: “Now is the time! For in nine months your wife, Sarah, will have a son!”" 
Romans9:10 Now, this son was our ancestor, Isaac, who, with his wife, Rebekah, conceived twins." 
Romans9:11 And before her twin sons were born, God spoke to Rebekah and said: “The oldest will serve the youngest.” God spoke these words before the sons had done anything good or bad, which proves that God calls people not on the basis of their good or bad works, but according to his divine purpose." 
Romans9:12  
Romans9:13 For in the words of Scripture: “Jacob I have chosen, but Esau I have rejected.”" 
Romans9:14 So, what does all this mean? Are we saying that God is unfair? Of course not!" 
Romans9:15 He had every right to say to Moses: “I will be merciful to whomever I choose and I will show compassion to whomever I wish.” 
Romans9:16 Again, this proves that God’s choice doesn’t depend on how badly someone wants it or tries to earn it, but it depends on God’s kindness and mercy." 
Romans9:17 For just as God said to Pharaoh: “I raised you up as ruler of Egypt for this reason, that I might make you an example of how I demonstrate my miracle power. For by the example of how I deal with you, my powerful name will be a message proclaimed throughout the earth!”" 
Romans9:18 So again we see that it is entirely up to God to show mercy or to harden the hearts of whomever he chooses. 
Romans9:19 Well then, one might ask, “If God is in complete control, how could he blame us? For who can resist whatever he wants done?”" 
Romans9:20 But who do you think you are to second-guess God? How could a human being molded out of clay say to the one who molded him, “Why in the world did you make me this way?”" 
Romans9:21 Or are you denying the right of the potter to make out of clay whatever he wants? Doesn’t the potter have the right to make from the same lump of clay an elegant vase or an ordinary pot? 
Romans9:22 And in the same way, although God has every right to unleash his anger and demonstrate his power, yet he is extremely patient with those who deserve wrath—vessels prepared for destruction." 
Romans9:23 And doesn’t he also have the right to release the revelation of the wealth of his glory to his vessels of mercy, whom God prepared beforehand to receive his glory?" 
Romans9:24 Even for us, whether we are Jews or non-Jews, we are those he has called to experience his glory." 
Romans9:25 Remember the prophecy God gave in Hosea: “To those who were rejected and not my people, I will say to them: ‘You are mine.’ And to those who were unloved I will say: ‘You are my darling.’ ”" 
Romans9:26 And: “In the place where they were told, ‘You are nobody,’ this will be the very place where they will be renamed ‘Children of the living God.’ ”" 
Romans9:27 And the prophet Isaiah cries out to Israel: Though the children of Israel are as many as the sands of the seashore, only a remnant will be saved." 
Romans9:28 For the Lord will act and carry out his word on the earth, and waste no time to accomplish it!" 
Romans9:29 Just as Isaiah saw it coming and prophesied: If the Lord God had not left us a remnant, we would have been destroyed like Sodom and left desolate like Gomorrah!" 
Romans9:30 So then, what does all this mean? Here’s the irony: The non-Jewish people, who weren’t even pursuing righteousness, were the ones who seized it—a perfect righteousness that is transferred by faith." 
Romans9:31 Yet Israel, even though pursuing a legal righteousness, did not attain to it." 
Romans9:32 And why was that? Because they did not pursue the path of faith but insisted on pursuing righteousness by works, as if it could be seized another way. They were offended by the means of obtaining it and stumbled over the stumbling stone," 
Romans9:33 just as it is written: “Be careful! I am setting in Zion a stone that will cause people to stumble, a rock of offense that will make them fall, but believers in him will not experience shame.”" 
Romans10:1 My beloved brothers and sisters, the passionate desire of my heart and constant prayer to God is for my fellow Israelites to experience salvation." 
Romans10:2 For I know that although they are deeply devoted to God, they are unenlightened." 
Romans10:3 And since they’ve ignored the righteousness God gives, wanting instead to be acceptable to God because of their own works, they’ve refused to submit to God’s faith-righteousness." 
Romans10:4 For Christ is the end of the law. And because of him, God has transferred his perfect righteousness to all who believe." 
Romans10:5 Moses wrote long ago about the need to obey every part of the law in order to be declared right with God: “The one who obeys these things must always live by them.” 
Romans10:6 But we receive the faith-righteousness that speaks an entirely different message: “Don’t for a moment think you need to climb into the heavens to find the Messiah and bring him down," 
Romans10:7 or to descend into the underworld to bring him up from the dead.” 
Romans10:8 But the faith-righteousness we receive speaks to us in these words of Moses: “God’s living message is very close to you, as close as your own heart beating in your chest and as near as the tongue in your mouth.”" 
Romans10:9 And what is God’s “living message”? It is the revelation of faith for salvation, which is the message that we preach. For if you publicly declare with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will experience salvation." 
Romans10:10 The heart that believes in him receives the gift of the righteousness of God—and then the mouth confesses, resulting in salvation." 
Romans10:11 For the Scriptures encourage us with these words: “Everyone who believes in him will never be disappointed.” 
Romans10:12 So then faith eliminates the distinction between Jew and non-Jew, for he is the same Lord for all people. And he has enough treasures to lavish generously upon all who call on him." 
Romans10:13 And it’s true: “Everyone who calls on the Lord’s name will experience new life.” 
Romans10:14 But how can people call on him for help if they’ve not yet believed? And how can they believe in one they’ve not yet heard of? And how can they hear the message of life if there is no one there to proclaim it? 
Romans10:15 And how can the message be proclaimed if messengers have yet to be sent? That’s why the Scriptures say: How welcome is the arrival of those proclaiming the joyful news of peace and of good things to come! 
Romans10:16 But not everyone welcomes the good news, as Isaiah said: Lord, is there anyone who hears and believes our message?" 
Romans10:17 Faith, then, is birthed in a heart that responds to God’s anointed utterance of the Anointed One." 
Romans10:18 Can it be that Israel hasn’t heard the message? No, they have heard it, for: The voice has been heard throughout the world, and its message has gone to the ends of the earth!" 
Romans10:19 So again I ask, didn’t Israel already understand that God’s message was for others as well as for themselves? Yes, they certainly did understand, for Moses was the first to state it: “I will make you jealous of a people who are ‘nobodies.’ And I will use people with no understanding to provoke you to anger.”" 
Romans10:20 And Isaiah the fearless prophet dared to declare: “Those who found me weren’t even seeking me. I manifested myself before those who weren’t even asking to know me!” 
Romans10:21 Yet regarding Israel Isaiah says: “With love I have held out my hands day after day, offering myself to this unbelieving and stubborn people!”" 
Romans11:1 So then I ask you this question: did God really push aside and reject his people? Absolutely not! For I myself am a Jew, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin." 
Romans11:2 God has not rejected his chosen, destined people! Haven’t you heard Elijah’s testimony in the Scriptures, and how he prays to God, agonizing over Israel?" 
Romans11:3 “Lord, they’ve murdered your prophets; they’ve demolished your altars. Now I’m the only one left and they want to kill me!”" 
Romans11:4 But what was the revelation God spoke to him in response? “ You are not alone. For I have preserved a remnant for myself—seven thousand others who are faithful and have refused to worship Baal.” 
Romans11:5 And that is but one example of what God is doing in this age of fulfillment, for God’s grace empowers his chosen remnant." 
Romans11:6 And since it is by God’s grace, it can’t be a matter of their good works; otherwise, it wouldn’t be a gift of grace, but earned by human effort." 
Romans11:7 So then, Israel failed to achieve what it had strived for, but the divinely chosen remnant receives it by grace, while the rest were hardened and unable to receive the truth." 
Romans11:8 Just as it is written: God granted them a spirit of deep slumber. He closed their eyes to the truth and prevented their ears from hearing up to this very day. 
Romans11:9 And King David also prophesied this: May their table prove to be a snare and a trap to cause their ruin. Bring them the retribution they deserve. 
Romans11:10 Blindfold their eyes and don’t let them see. Let them be stooped over continually. 
Romans11:11 So, am I saying that Israel stumbled so badly that they will never get back up? Certainly not! Rather, it was because of their stumble that salvation now extends to all the non-Jewish people, in order to make Israel jealous and desire the very things that God has freely given them." 
Romans11:12 So if all the world is being greatly enriched through their failure, and through their fall great spiritual wealth is given to the non-Jewish people, imagine how much more will Israel’s awakening bring to us all!" 
Romans11:13 Now, I speak to you who are not Jewish, since I am an apostle to reach the non-Jewish people. And I draw attention to this ministry as much as I can when I am among the Jews," 
Romans11:14 hoping to make them jealous of what God has given to those who are not Jews, winning some of my people to salvation." 
Romans11:15 For if their temporary rejection released the reconciling power of grace into the world, what will happen when Israel is reinstated and reconciled to God? It will unleash resurrection power throughout the whole earth!" 
Romans11:16 Since Abraham and the patriarchs are consecrated and set apart for God, so also will their descendants be set apart. If the roots of a tree are holy and set apart for God, so too will be the branches." 
Romans11:17 However, some of the branches have been pruned away. And you, who were once nothing more than a wild olive branch, God has grafted in—inserting you among the remaining branches as a joint partner to share in the wonderful richness of the cultivated olive stem." 
Romans11:18 So don’t be so arrogant as to believe that you are superior to the natural branches. There’s no reason to boast, for the new branches don’t support the root, but you owe your life to the root that supports you!" 
Romans11:19 You might begin to think that some branches were pruned or broken off just to make room for you. 
Romans11:20 Yes, that’s true. They were removed because of their unbelief. But remember this: you are only attached by your faith. So don’t be presumptuous, but stand in awe and reverence." 
Romans11:21 Since God didn’t spare the natural branches that fell into unbelief, perhaps he won’t spare you either!" 
Romans11:22 So fix your gaze on the simultaneous kindness and strict justice of God. How severely he treated those who fell into unbelief! Yet how tender and kind is his relationship with you. So keep on trusting in his kindness; otherwise, you also will be cut off." 
Romans11:23 God is more than ready to graft back in the natural branches when they turn from clinging to their unbelief to embracing faith. 
Romans11:24 For if God grafted you in, even though you were taken from what is by nature a wild olive tree, how much more can he reconnect the natural branches by inserting them back into their own cultivated olive tree!" 
Romans11:25 My beloved brothers and sisters, I want to share with you a mystery concerning Israel’s future. For understanding this mystery will keep you from thinking you already know everything. A partial and temporary hardening to the gospel has come over Israel, which will last until the full number of non-Jews has come into God’s family." 
Romans11:26 And then God will bring all of Israel to salvation! The prophecy will be fulfilled that says: “Coming from Zion will be the Savior, and he will turn Jacob away from evil." 
Romans11:27 For this is my covenant promise with them when I forgive their sins.” 
Romans11:28 Now, many of the Jews are opposed to the gospel, but their opposition has opened the door of the gospel to you who are not Jewish. Yet they are still greatly loved by God because their ancestors were divinely chosen to be his." 
Romans11:29 And when God chooses someone and graciously imparts gifts to him, they are never rescinded." 
Romans11:30 You who are not Jews were once rebels against God, but now, because of their disobedience, you have experienced God’s tender mercies." 
Romans11:31 And now they are the rebels, and because of God’s tender mercies to you, you can open the door to them to share in and enjoy what God has given to us!" 
Romans11:32 Actually, God considers all of humanity to be prisoners of their unbelief, so that he can unlock our hearts and show his tender mercies to all who come to him." 
Romans11:33 Who could ever wrap their minds around the riches of God, the depth of his wisdom, and the marvel of his perfect knowledge? Who could ever explain the wonder of his decisions or search out the mysterious way he carries out his plans?" 
Romans11:34 For who has discovered how the Lord thinks or is wise enough to be the one to advise him in his plans? 
Romans11:35 Or: “Who has ever first given something to God that obligates God to owe him something in return?” 
Romans11:36 For out of him, the sustainer of everything, came everything, and now everything finds fulfillment in him. May all praise and honor be given to him forever! Amen!" 
Romans12:1 Beloved friends, what should be our proper response to God’s marvelous mercies? To surrender yourselves to God to be his sacred, living sacrifices. And live in holiness, experiencing all that delights his heart. For this becomes your genuine expression of worship." 
Romans12:2 Stop imitating the ideals and opinions of the culture around you, but be inwardly transformed by the Holy Spirit through a total reformation of how you think. This will empower you to discern God’s will as you live a beautiful life, satisfying and perfect in his eyes." 
Romans12:3 God has given me grace to speak a warning about pride. I would ask each of you to be emptied of self-promotion and not create a false image of your importance. Instead, honestly assess your worth by using your God-given faith as the standard of measurement, and then you will see your true value with an appropriate self-esteem." 
Romans12:4 In the human body there are many parts and organs, each with a unique function." 
Romans12:5 And so it is in the body of Christ. For though we are many, we’ve all been mingled into one body in Christ. This means that we are all vitally joined to one another, with each contributing to the others." 
Romans12:6 God’s marvelous grace imparts to each one of us varying gifts. So if God has given you the grace-gift of prophecy, activate your gift by using the proportion of faith you have to prophesy." 
Romans12:7 If your grace-gift is serving, then thrive in serving others well. If you have the grace-gift of teaching, then be actively teaching and training others." 
Romans12:8 If you have the grace-gift of encouragement, then use it often to encourage others. If you have the grace-gift of giving to meet the needs of others, then may you prosper in your generosity without any fanfare. If you have the gift of leadership, be passionate about your leadership. And if you have the gift of showing compassion, then flourish in your cheerful display of compassion." 
Romans12:9 Let the inner movement of your heart always be to love one another, and never play the role of an actor wearing a mask. Despise evil and embrace everything that is good and virtuous." 
Romans12:10 Be devoted to tenderly loving your fellow believers as members of one family. Try to outdo yourselves in respect and honor of one another. 
Romans12:11 Be enthusiastic to serve the Lord, keeping your passion toward him boiling hot! Radiate with the glow of the Holy Spirit and let him fill you with excitement as you serve him." 
Romans12:12 Let this hope burst forth within you, releasing a continual joy. Don’t give up in a time of trouble, but commune with God at all times." 
Romans12:13 Take a constant interest in the needs of God’s beloved people and respond by helping them. And eagerly welcome people as guests into your home. 
Romans12:14 Speak blessing, not cursing, over those who reject and persecute you." 
Romans12:15 Celebrate with those who celebrate, and weep with those who grieve." 
Romans12:16 Live happily together in a spirit of harmony, and be as mindful of another’s worth as you are your own. Don’t live with a lofty mind-set, thinking you are too important to serve others, but be willing to do menial tasks and identify with those who are humble minded. Don’t be smug or even think for a moment that you know it all." 
Romans12:17 Never hold a grudge or try to get even, but plan your life around the noblest way to benefit others." 
Romans12:18 Do your best to live as everybody’s friend. 
Romans12:19 Beloved, don’t be obsessed with taking revenge, but leave that to God’s righteous justice. For the Scriptures say: “Vengeance is mine, and I will repay,” says the Lord." 
Romans12:20 And: If your enemy is hungry, buy him lunch! Win him over with kindness. For your surprising generosity will awaken his conscience, and God will reward you with favor." 
Romans12:21 Never let evil defeat you, but defeat evil with good." 
Romans13:1 Every person must submit to and support the authorities over him. For there can be no authority in the universe except by God’s appointment, which means that every authority that exists has been instituted by God." 
Romans13:2 So to resist authority is to resist the divine order of God, which results in severe consequences." 
Romans13:3 For civil authorities don’t intimidate those who are doing good, but those who are doing evil. So do what is right and you’ll never need to fear those in authority. They will commend you for your good citizenship." 
Romans13:4 Those in authority are God’s servants for the good of society. But if you break the law, you have reason to be alarmed, for they are God’s agents of punishment to bring criminals to justice. Why do you think they carry weapons?" 
Romans13:5 You are compelled to obey them, not just to avoid punishment, but because you want to live with a clean conscience." 
Romans13:6 This is also the reason you pay your taxes, for governmental authorities are God’s officials who oversee these things." 
Romans13:7 So it is your duty to pay all the taxes and fees that they require and to respect those who are worthy of respect, honoring them accordingly." 
Romans13:8 Don’t owe anything to anyone, except your outstanding debt to continually love one another, for the one who learns to love has fulfilled every requirement of the law." 
Romans13:9 For the commandments, “Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not covet,” and every other commandment can be summed up in these words: “Love and value others the same way you love and value yourself.”" 
Romans13:10 Love makes it impossible to harm another, so love fulfills all that the law requires." 
Romans13:11 To live like this is all the more urgent, for time is running out and you know it is a strategic hour in human history. It is time for us to wake up! For our full salvation is nearer now than when we first believed." 
Romans13:12 Night’s darkness is dissolving away as a new day of destiny dawns. So we must once and for all strip away what is done in the shadows of darkness, removing it like filthy clothes. And once and for all we clothe ourselves with the radiance of light as our weapon." 
Romans13:13 We must live honorably, surrounded by the light of this new day, not in the darkness of drunkenness and debauchery, not in promiscuity and sensuality, not being argumentative or jealous of others." 
Romans13:14 Instead fully immerse yourselves into the Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, and don’t waste even a moment’s thought on your former identity to awaken its selfish desires." 
Romans14:1 Offer an open hand of fellowship to welcome every true believer, even though their faith may be weak and immature. And refuse to engage in debates with them concerning nothing more than opinions." 
Romans14:2 For example, one believer has no problem with eating all kinds of food, but another with weaker faith will eat only vegetables." 
Romans14:3 The one who eats freely shouldn’t judge and look down on the one who eats only vegetables. And the vegetarian must not judge and look down on the one who eats everything. Remember, God has welcomed him and taken him as his partner." 
Romans14:4 Who do you think you are to sit in judgment of someone else’s household servant? His own master is the one to evaluate whether he succeeds or fails. And God’s servants will succeed, for God’s power supports them and enables them to stand." 
Romans14:5 In the same way, one person regards a certain day as more sacred than another, and another person regards them all alike. There is nothing wrong with having different personal convictions about such matters." 
Romans14:6 For the person who observes one day as especially sacred does it to honor the Lord. And the same is true regarding what a person eats. The one who eats everything eats to honor the Lord, because he gives thanks to God, and the one who has a special diet does it to honor the Lord, and he also gives thanks to God." 
Romans14:7 No one lives to himself and no one dies to himself. 
Romans14:8 While we live, we must live for our Master, and in death we must bring honor to him. So dead or alive we belong to our Master." 
Romans14:9 For this very reason the Anointed One died and was brought back to life again, so that he would become the Lord God over both the dead and the living." 
Romans14:10 Why would you judge your brothers or sisters because of their diet, despising them for what they eat or don’t eat? For we each will have our turn to stand before God’s judgment seat." 
Romans14:11 Just as it is written: “As surely as I am the Living God, I tell you: ‘Every knee will bow before me and every tongue will confess the truth and glorify me!’ ”" 
Romans14:12 Therefore, each one must answer for himself and give a personal account of his own life before God." 
Romans14:13 So stop being critical and condemning of other believers, but instead determine to never deliberately cause a brother or sister to stumble and fall because of your actions." 
Romans14:14 I know and am convinced by personal revelation from the Lord Jesus that there is nothing wrong with eating any food. But to the one who considers it to be unclean, it is unacceptable." 
Romans14:15 If your brother or sister is offended because you insist on eating what you want, it is no longer love that rules your conduct. Why would you wound someone for whom the Messiah gave his life, just so you can eat what you want?" 
Romans14:16 So don’t give people the opportunity to slander what you know to be good. 
Romans14:17 For the kingdom of God is not a matter of rules about food and drink, but is in the realm of the Holy Spirit, filled with righteousness, peace, and joy." 
Romans14:18 Serving the Anointed One by walking in these kingdom realities pleases God and earns the respect of others. 
Romans14:19 So then, make it your top priority to live a life of peace with harmony in your relationships, eagerly seeking to strengthen and encourage one another." 
Romans14:20 Stop ruining the work of God by insisting on your own opinions about food. You can eat anything you want, but it is wrong to deliberately cause someone to be offended over what you eat." 
Romans14:21 Consider it an act of love to refrain from eating meat or drinking wine or doing anything else that would cause a fellow believer to be offended or tempted to be weakened in his faith. 
Romans14:22 Keep the convictions you have about these matters between yourself and God, and don’t impose them upon others. You’ll be happy when you don’t judge yourself in doing what your conscience approves." 
Romans14:23 But the one who has misgivings feels miserable if he eats meat, because he doubts and doesn’t eat in faith. For anything we do that doesn’t spring from faith is, by definition, sinful." 
Romans15:1 Now, those who are mature in their faith can easily be recognized, for they don’t live to please themselves but have learned to patiently embrace others in their immaturity." 
Romans15:2 Our goal must be to empower others to do what is right and good for them, and to bring them into spiritual maturity." 
Romans15:3 For not even the most powerful one of all, the Anointed One, lived to please himself. His life fulfilled the Scripture that says: All the insults of those who insulted you fall upon me." 
Romans15:4 Whatever was written beforehand is meant to instruct us in how to live. The Scriptures impart to us encouragement and inspiration so that we can live in hope and endure all things. 
Romans15:5 Now may God, the source of great endurance and comfort, grace you with unity among yourselves, which flows from your relationship with Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Romans15:6 Then, with a unanimous rush of passion, you will with one voice glorify God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
Romans15:7 You will bring God glory when you accept and welcome one another as partners, just as the Anointed One has fully accepted you and received you as his partner." 
Romans15:8 I am convinced that Jesus, the Messiah, was sent as a servant to the Jewish people to fulfill the promises God made to our ancestors and to prove God’s faithfulness." 
Romans15:9 And now, because of Jesus, the non-Jewish people of the world can glorify God for his kindness to them, fulfilling the prophecy of Scripture: Because of this I will proclaim you among the nations and they will hear me sing praises to your name." 
Romans15:10 And in another place it says: “You who are not Jewish, celebrate life right alongside his Jewish people.”" 
Romans15:11 And again: Praise the Lord, all you who are not Jews, and let all the people of the earth raise their voices in praises to him." 
Romans15:12 And Isaiah prophesied: “An heir to David’s throne will emerge, and he will rise up as ruler over all the non-Jewish nations, for all their hopes will be met in him.”" 
Romans15:13 Now may God, the fountain of hope, fill you to overflowing with uncontainable joy and perfect peace as you trust in him. And may the power of the Holy Spirit continually surround your life with his super-abundance until you radiate with hope!" 
Romans15:14 My dear brothers and sisters, I am fully convinced of your genuine spirituality. I know that each of you is stuffed full of God’s goodness, that you are richly supplied with all kinds of revelation-knowledge, and that you are empowered to effectively instruct one another." 
Romans15:15 And because of the outpouring of God’s grace on my life to be his minister and to preach Jesus, the Anointed One, to the non-Jewish people, I have written rather boldly to you on some themes, reminding you of their importance." 
Romans15:16 For this grace has made me a servant of the gospel of God, constantly doing the work of a priest, for I endeavor to present an acceptable offering to God; so that the non-Jewish people of the earth may be set apart and made holy by the Spirit of holiness." 
Romans15:17 Now then, it is through my union with Jesus Christ, that I enjoy an enthusiasm and confidence in my ministry for God." 
Romans15:18 And I will not be presumptuous to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me. For many non-Jewish people are coming into faith’s obedience by the power of the Spirit of God, which is displayed through mighty signs and amazing wonders, both in word and deed. Starting from Jerusalem I went from place to place as far as the distant Roman province of Illyricum, fully preaching the wonderful message of Christ." 
Romans15:19  
Romans15:20 It is my honor and constant passion to be a pioneer who preaches where no one has ever even heard of the Anointed One, instead of building upon someone else’s foundation." 
Romans15:21 As the Scriptures say: Those who know nothing about him will clearly see him, and those who have not heard will understand." 
Romans15:22 My pursuit of this mission has prevented me many times from visiting you," 
Romans15:23 but there is now nothing left to keep me in these regions. So many years I have longed to come and be with you! 
Romans15:24 So on my way to Spain I hope to visit you as I pass through Rome. And after I have enjoyed fellowship with you for a while, I hope that you would help me financially on my journey." 
Romans15:25 But now I’m on my way to Jerusalem to encourage God’s people and minister to them. 
Romans15:26 I am pleased to inform you that the believers of Macedonia and Greece have made a generous contribution for the poor among the holy believers in Jerusalem. 
Romans15:27 They were thrilled to have an opportunity to give back to the believers in Jerusalem. For indeed, they are deeply grateful for them and feel indebted because they brought them the gospel. Since the ethnic multitudes have shared in the spiritual wealth of the Jewish people, it is only right that the non-Jewish people share their material wealth with them." 
Romans15:28 So, when I have completed this act of worship and safely delivered the offering to them in Jerusalem, I will set out for Spain and visit you on my way there." 
Romans15:29 I am convinced that when I come to you, I will come packed full and loaded with the blessings of the Anointed One!" 
Romans15:30 That’s why I plead with you, because of our union with our Lord Jesus Christ, to be partners with me in your prayers to God. My dear brothers and sisters in the faith, with the love we share in the Holy Spirit, fight alongside me in prayer." 
Romans15:31 Ask the Father to deliver me from the danger I face from the unbelievers in Judea. For I want to make sure that the contribution I carry for Jerusalem will be favorably received by God’s holy ones. 
Romans15:31 Ask the Father to deliver me from the danger I face from the unbelievers in Judea. For I want to make sure that the contribution I carry for Jerusalem will be favorably received by God’s holy ones. 
Romans15:32 Then he will send me to you with great joy in the pleasure of God’s will, and I will be spiritually refreshed by your fellowship." 
Romans15:33 And now may the God who gives us his peace and wholeness be with you all. Yes, Lord, so let it be!" 
Romans16:1 Now, let me introduce to you our dear and beloved sister in the faith, Phoebe, a shining minister of the church in Cenchrea." 
Romans16:2 I am sending her with this letter and ask that you shower her with your hospitality when she arrives. Embrace her with honor, as is fitting for one who belongs to the Lord and is set apart for him. So provide her whatever she may need, for she’s been a great leader and champion for many—I know, for she’s been that for even me!" 
Romans16:3 Give my love to Prisca and Aquila, my partners in ministry serving the Anointed One, Jesus," 
Romans16:4 for they’ve risked their own lives to save mine. I’m so thankful for them, and not just I, but all the congregations among the non-Jewish people respect them for their ministry." 
Romans16:5 Also give my loving greetings to all the believers in their house church. And greet Epenetus, who was the first convert to Christ in the Roman province of Asia, for I love him dearly." 
Romans16:6 And give my greetings to Miriam, who has toiled and labored extremely hard to benefit you." 
Romans16:7 Make sure that my relatives Andronicus and Junia are honored, for they’re my fellow captives who bear the distinctive mark of being outstanding and well-known apostles, and who were joined into the Anointed One before me." 
Romans16:8 Give my regards to Ampliatus, whom I love, for he is joined into the Lord." 
Romans16:9 And give my loving greetings to Urbanus, our partner in ministry serving the Anointed One, and also to Stachus, whom I love." 
Romans16:10 Don’t forget to greet Apelles for me, for he’s been tested and found to be approved by the Anointed One. And extend warm greetings to all those of Aristobolos’s house church." 
Romans16:11 Give my love to my relative Herodion, and also to all those of the house church of Narcissus, for they too are joined into the Lord." 
Romans16:12 Please greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, for they are women who have diligently served the Lord. To Persis, who is much loved and faithful in her ministry for the Lord, I send my greetings." 
Romans16:13 And Rufus, for he is especially chosen by the Lord. And I greet his mother, who was like a mother to me." 
Romans16:14 I cannot forget to mention my esteemed friends Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and all the brothers and sisters who meet with them." 
Romans16:15 Give my regards to Philologus, Julia, Nereus and his sister, and also Olympas and all the holy believers who meet with them." 
Romans16:16 Greet each other with a holy kiss of God’s love. All the believers in all the congregations of the Messiah send their greetings to all of you. 
Romans16:17 And now, dear brothers and sisters, I’d like to give one final word of caution: Watch out for those who cause divisions and offenses among you. When they antagonize you by speaking of things that are contrary to the teachings that you’ve received, don’t be caught in their snare!" 
Romans16:18 For people like this are not truly serving the Lord, our Messiah, but are being driven by their own desires for a following. Utilizing their smooth words and well-rehearsed blessings, they seek to deceive the hearts of innocent ones." 
Romans16:19 I’m so happy when I think of you, because everyone knows the testimony of your deep commitment of faith. So I want you to become scholars of all that is good and beautiful, and stay pure and innocent when it comes to evil." 
Romans16:20 And the God of peace will swiftly pound Satan to a pulp under your feet! And the wonderful favor of our Lord Jesus will surround you. 
Romans16:21 My ministry partner, Timothy, sends his loving greetings, along with Luke, Jason, and Sosipater, my Jewish kinsmen." 
Romans16:21 My ministry partner, Timothy, sends his loving greetings, along with Luke, Jason, and Sosipater, my Jewish kinsmen." 
Romans16:22 (I, Tertius, am the one transcribing this letter for Paul, and I too send my greetings to all of you, as a follower of the Lord.)" 
Romans16:23 My kind host here in Corinth, Gaius, likewise greets you, along with the entire congregation of his house church. Also, the city administrator Erastus and our brother Quartus send their warm greetings." 
Romans16:24 May the grace and favor of our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, continually rest upon you all." 
Romans16:25 I give all my praises and glory to the one who has more than enough power to make you strong and keep you steadfast through the promises found in my gospel; that is, the proclamation of Jesus, the Anointed One. This wonderful news includes the unveiling of the mystery kept secret from the dawn of creation until now." 
Romans16:26 This mystery is understood through the prophecies of the Scripture and by the decree of the eternal God. And it is now heard openly by all the nations, igniting within them a deep commitment of faith." 
Romans16:27 Now to God, the only source of wisdom, be glorious praises for endless ages through Jesus, the Anointed One! Amen! (Paul’s letter was transcribed by Tertius in Corinth and sent from Corinth and carried to Rome by Phoebe.)" 
1Corinthians1:1 From Paul, divinely appointed according to the plan of God, to be an apostle of the Anointed One, Jesus. Our fellow believer Sosthenes joins me" 
1Corinthians1:2 in writing you this letter addressed to the community of God throughout the city of Corinth. For you have been made pure, set apart in the Anointed One, Jesus. And God has invited you to be his devoted and holy people, and not only you, but everyone everywhere who calls on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ as their Lord, and ours also." 
1Corinthians1:3 May joyous grace and endless peace be yours continually from our Father God and from our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One!" 
1Corinthians1:4 I am always thanking my God for you because he has given you such free and open access to his grace through your union with Jesus, the Messiah." 
1Corinthians1:5 In him you have been made extravagantly rich in every way. You have been endowed with a wealth of inspired utterance and the riches that come from your intimate knowledge of him. 
1Corinthians1:6 For the reality of the truth of Christ is seen among you and strengthened through your experience of him. 
1Corinthians1:7 So now you aren’t lacking any spiritual gift as you eagerly await the unveiling of the Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1Corinthians1:8 He will keep you steady and strong to the very end, making your character mature so that you will be found innocent on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians1:9 God is forever faithful and can be trusted to do this in you, for he has invited you to co-share the life of his Son, Jesus, the Anointed One, our King!" 
1Corinthians1:10 I urge you, my brothers and sisters, for the sake of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to agree to live in unity with one another and put to rest any division that attempts to tear you apart. Be restored as one united body living in perfect harmony. Form a consistent choreography among yourselves, having a common perspective with shared values." 
1Corinthians1:11 My dear brothers and sisters, I have a serious concern I need to bring up with you, for I have been informed by those of Chloe’s house church that you have been destructively arguing among yourselves." 
1Corinthians1:12 And I need to bring this up because each of you is claiming loyalty to different preachers. Some are saying, “I am a disciple of Paul,” or, “I follow Apollos,” or, “I am a disciple of Peter the Rock,” and some, “I belong only to Christ.”" 
1Corinthians1:13 But let me ask you, is Christ divided up into groups? Did I die on the cross for you? At your baptism did you pledge yourselves to follow Paul?" 
1Corinthians1:14 Thank God I only baptized two from Corinth—Crispus and Gaius! 
1Corinthians1:15 So now no one can say that in my name I baptized others. 
1Corinthians1:16 (Yes, I also baptized Stephanus and his family. Other than that, I don’t remember baptizing anyone else.)" 
1Corinthians1:17 For the Anointed One has sent me on a mission, not to see how many I could baptize, but to proclaim the good news. And I declare this message stripped of all philosophical arguments that empty the cross of its true power. For I trust in the all-sufficient cross of Christ alone." 
1Corinthians1:18 To preach the message of the cross seems like sheer nonsense to those who are on their way to destruction, but to us who are being saved, it is the mighty power of God released within us." 
1Corinthians1:19 For it is written: I will dismantle the wisdom of the wise and I will invalidate the intelligence of the scholars. 
1Corinthians1:20 So where is the wise philosopher who understands? Where is the expert scholar who comprehends? And where is the skilled debater of our time who could win a debate with God? Hasn’t God demonstrated that the wisdom of this world system is utter foolishness? 
1Corinthians1:21 For in his wisdom, God designed that all the world’s wisdom would be insufficient to lead people to the discovery of himself. He took great delight in baffling the wisdom of the world by using the simplicity of preaching the story of the cross in order to save those who believe it." 
1Corinthians1:22 For the Jews constantly demand to see miraculous signs, while those who are not Jews constantly cling to the world’s wisdom," 
1Corinthians1:23 but we preach the crucified Messiah. The Jews stumble over him and the rest of the world sees him as foolishness. 
1Corinthians1:24 But for those who have been chosen to follow him, both Jews and Greeks, he is God’s mighty power, God’s true wisdom, and our Messiah." 
1Corinthians1:25 For the “foolish” things of God have proven to be wiser than human wisdom. And the “feeble” things of God have proven to be far more powerful than any human ability. 
1Corinthians1:26 Brothers and sisters, consider who you were when God called you to salvation. Not many of you were wise scholars by human standards, nor were many of you in positions of power. Not many of you were considered the elite when you answered God’s call." 
1Corinthians1:27 But God chose those whom the world considers foolish to shame those who think they are wise, and God chose the puny and powerless to shame the high and mighty." 
1Corinthians1:28 He chose the lowly, the laughable in the world’s eyes—nobodies—so that he would shame the somebodies. For he chose what is regarded as insignificant in order to supersede what is regarded as prominent," 
1Corinthians1:29 so that there would be no place for prideful boasting in God’s presence. 
1Corinthians1:30 For it is not from man that we draw our life but from God as we are being joined to Jesus, the Anointed One. And now he is our God-given wisdom, our virtue, our holiness, and our redemption." 
1Corinthians1:31 And this fulfills what is written: If anyone boasts, let him only boast in all that the Lord has done!" 
1Corinthians2:1 My brothers and sisters, when I first came to proclaim to you the secrets of God, I refused to come as an expert, trying to impress you with my eloquent speech and lofty wisdom." 
1Corinthians2:2 For while I was with you I was determined to be consumed with one topic—Jesus, the crucified Messiah." 
1Corinthians2:3 I stood before you feeling inadequate, filled with reverence for God, and trembling under the sense of the importance of my words." 
1Corinthians2:4 The message I preached and how I preached it was not an attempt to sway you with persuasive arguments but to prove to you the almighty power of God’s Holy Spirit. 
1Corinthians2:5 For God intended that your faith not be established on man’s wisdom but by trusting in his almighty power. 
1Corinthians2:6 However, there is a wisdom that we continually speak of when we are among the spiritually mature. It’s wisdom that didn’t originate in this present age, nor did it come from the rulers of this age who are in the process of being dethroned." 
1Corinthians2:7 Instead, we continually speak of this wonderful wisdom that comes from God, hidden before now in a mystery. It is his secret plan, destined before the ages, to bring us into glory." 
1Corinthians2:8 None of the rulers of this present world order understood it, for if they had, they never would have crucified the Lord of shining glory." 
1Corinthians2:9 This is why the Scriptures say: Things never discovered or heard of before, things beyond our ability to imagine — these are the many things God has in store for all his lovers." 
1Corinthians2:10 But God now unveils these profound realities to us by the Spirit. Yes, he has revealed to us his inmost heart and deepest mysteries through the Holy Spirit, who constantly explores all things." 
1Corinthians2:11 After all, who can really see into a person’s heart and know his hidden impulses except for that person’s spirit? So it is with God. His thoughts and secrets are only fully understood by his Spirit, the Spirit of God." 
1Corinthians2:12 For we did not receive the spirit of this world system but the Spirit of God, so that we might come to understand and experience all that grace has lavished upon us." 
1Corinthians2:13 And we articulate these realities with the words imparted to us by the Spirit and not with the words taught by human wisdom. We join together Spirit-revealed truths with Spirit-revealed words. 
1Corinthians2:14 Someone living on an entirely human level rejects the revelations of God’s Spirit, for they make no sense to him. He can’t understand the revelations of the Spirit because they are only discovered by the illumination of the Spirit." 
1Corinthians2:15 Those who live in the Spirit are able to carefully evaluate all things, and they are subject to the scrutiny of no one but God." 
1Corinthians2:16 For Who has ever intimately known the mind of the Lord Yahweh well enough to become his counselor? Christ has, and we possess Christ’s perceptions." 
1Corinthians3:1 Brothers and sisters, when I was with you I found it impossible to speak to you as those who are spiritually mature people, for you are still dominated by the mind-set of the flesh. And because you are immature infants in Christ," 
1Corinthians3:2 I had to nurse you and feed you with “milk,” not with the solid food of more advanced teachings, because you weren’t ready for it. In fact, you are still not ready to be fed solid food," 
1Corinthians3:3 for you are living your lives dominated by the mind-set of the flesh. Ask yourselves: Is there jealousy among you? Do you compare yourselves with others? Do you quarrel like children and end up taking sides? If so, this proves that you are living your lives centered on yourselves, dominated by the mind-set of the flesh, and behaving like unbelievers." 
1Corinthians3:4 For when you divide yourselves up in groups—a “Paul group” and an “Apollos group” —you’re acting like people without the Spirit’s influence. 
1Corinthians3:5 Who is Apollos, really? Or who is Paul? Aren’t we both just servants through whom you believed our message? Aren’t each of us doing the ministry the Lord has assigned to us?" 
1Corinthians3:6 I planted the church, and Apollos came and cared for it, but it was God who caused it to grow." 
1Corinthians3:7 This means the one who plants is not anybody special, nor the one who waters, for God is the one who brings the supernatural growth." 
1Corinthians3:8 Now, the one who plants and the one who waters are equally important and on the same team, but each will be rewarded for his own work." 
1Corinthians3:9 We are coworkers with God and you are God’s cultivated garden, the house he is building." 
1Corinthians3:10 God has given me unique gifts as a skilled master builder who lays a good foundation. Afterward another craftsman comes and builds on it. So builders beware! Let every builder do his work carefully, according to God’s standards." 
1Corinthians3:11 For no one is empowered to lay an alternative foundation other than the good foundation that exists, which is Jesus Christ!" 
1Corinthians3:12 The quality of materials used by anyone building on this foundation will soon be made apparent, whether it has been built with gold, silver, and costly stones, or wood, hay, and straw. Their work will soon become evident, for the Day will make it clear, because it will be revealed by blazing fire! And the fire will test and prove the workmanship of each builder." 
1Corinthians3:13  
1Corinthians3:14 If his work stands the test of fire, he will be rewarded." 
1Corinthians3:15 If his work is consumed by the fire, he will suffer great loss. Yet he himself will barely escape destruction, like one being rescued out of a burning house." 
1Corinthians3:16 Don’t you realize that together you have become God’s inner sanctuary and that the Spirit of God makes his permanent home in you? 
1Corinthians3:17 Now, if someone desecrates God’s inner sanctuary, God will desecrate him, for God’s inner sanctuary is holy, and that is exactly who you are." 
1Corinthians3:18 So why fool yourself and live under an illusion? Make no mistake about it, if anyone thinks he is wise by the world’s standards, he will be made wiser by being a fool for God!" 
1Corinthians3:19 For what the world says is wisdom is actually foolishness in God’s eyes. As it is written: The cleverness of the know-it-alls becomes the trap that ensnares them. 
1Corinthians3:20 And again: The Lord sees right through the clever reasonings of the wise and knows that it’s all a sham. 
1Corinthians3:21 So don’t be proud of your allegiance to any human leader. For actually, you already have everything! It has all been given for your benefit," 
1Corinthians3:22 whether it is Paul or Apollos or Peter the Rock, or whether it’s the world or life or death, or whether it’s the present or the future—everything belongs to you!" 
1Corinthians3:23 And now you are joined to the Messiah, who is joined to God." 
1Corinthians4:1 So then you must perceive us— not as leaders of factions, but as servants of the Anointed One, those who have been entrusted with God’s mysteries." 
1Corinthians4:2 The most important quality of one entrusted with such secrets is that they are faithful and trustworthy. 
1Corinthians4:3 But personally, I’m not the least bit concerned if I’m judged by you or any verdict I receive from any human court. In fact, I don’t even assume to be my own judge," 
1Corinthians4:4 even though my conscience is clear. But that doesn’t mean I stand acquitted before the Lord, for the only judge I care about is him!" 
1Corinthians4:5 So resist the temptation to pronounce premature judgment on anything before the appointed time when all will be fully revealed. Instead, wait until the Lord makes his appearance, for he will bring all that is hidden in darkness to light and unveil every secret motive of everyone’s heart. Then, when the whole truth is known, each will receive praise from God." 
1Corinthians4:6 Dear brothers and sisters, I’ve been referring allusively to myself and Apollos in order to illustrate what I’ve been saying. It is futile to move beyond what is written in the Scriptures and be inflated with self-importance by following and promoting one leader in competition with another." 
1Corinthians4:7 For what makes a distinction between you and someone else? And what do you have that grace has not given you? And if you received it as a gift, why do you boast as though there is something special about you?" 
1Corinthians4:8 Oh, I know, you already have all you need! Since when did you become so content and rich without us? You’ve already crowned yourselves as royalty, reigning on your thrones, leaving us lowly apostles far behind! How I wish indeed that you really were reigning as kings already, for that would mean we would be reigning as kings alongside of you." 
1Corinthians4:9 It seems to me that God has appointed us apostles to be at the end of the line. We are like those on display at the end of the procession, as doomed gladiators soon to be killed. We have become a theatrical spectacle to all creation, both to people and to angels." 
1Corinthians4:10 We are fools for Christ, but you are wise in Christ! We are the frail; you are the powerful. You are celebrated; we are humiliated." 
1Corinthians4:11 If you could see us now, you’d find that we are hungry and thirsty, poorly clothed, brutally treated, and with no roof over our heads." 
1Corinthians4:12 We work hard, toiling with our own hands. When people abuse and insult us, we respond with a blessing, and when severely persecuted, we endure it with patience." 
1Corinthians4:13 When we are slandered incessantly, we always answer gently, ready to reconcile. Even now, in the world’s opinion, we are nothing but filth and the lowest scum." 
1Corinthians4:14 I’m not writing this to embarrass you or to shame you, but to correct you as the children I love." 
1Corinthians4:15 For although you could have countless babysitters in Christ telling you what you’re doing wrong, you don’t have many fathers who correct you in love. But I’m a true father to you, for I became your father when I gave you the gospel and brought you into union with Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1Corinthians4:16 So I encourage you, my children, to follow the example that I live before you." 
1Corinthians4:17 That’s why I’ve sent my dear son Timothy, whom I love. He is faithful to the Lord Yahweh and will remind you of how I conduct myself as one who lives in union with Jesus, the Anointed One, and of the teachings that I bring to every church everywhere." 
1Corinthians4:18 There are some among you who have exalted themselves as if I were not coming back to you. 
1Corinthians4:19 But I will come soon, if it pleases the Lord, and I will find out not only what these arrogant ones are saying, but also if they have power to back up their words!" 
1Corinthians4:20 For the kingdom realm of God comes with power, not simply impressive words." 
1Corinthians4:21 So which would you prefer? Shall I come carrying the rod of authority to discipline or with an embrace in love with a gentle spirit? 
1Corinthians5:1 It’s been widely reported that there is gross sexual immorality among you—the kind of immorality that’s so revolting it’s not even tolerated by the social norms of unbelievers. Are you proud of the fact that one of your men is having sex with his stepmother? Shouldn’t this heartbreaking scandal bring you to your knees in tears? You must remove the offender from among you! 
1Corinthians5:2  
1Corinthians5:3 Even though I am physically far away from you, my spirit is present with you. And as one who is present with you, I have already evaluated and judged the perpetrator." 
1Corinthians5:4 So call a meeting, and when you gather together in the name of our Lord Jesus, and you know my spirit is present with you in the infinite power of our Lord Jesus," 
1Corinthians5:5 release this man over to Satan for the destruction of his rebellious flesh, in hope that his spirit may be rescued and restored in the day of the Lord." 
1Corinthians5:6 Boasting over your tolerance of sin is inappropriate. Don’t you understand that even a small compromise with sin permeates the entire fellowship, just as a little leaven permeates a batch of dough?" 
1Corinthians5:7 So remove every trace of your “leaven” of compromise with sin so that you might become new and pure again. For indeed, you are clean because Christ, our Passover Lamb, has been sacrificed for us." 
1Corinthians5:8 So now we can celebrate our continual feast, not with the old “leaven,” the yeast of wickedness or bitterness, but we will feast on the freshly baked bread of innocence and holiness." 
1Corinthians5:9 I wrote you in my previous letter asking you not to associate with those who practice sexual immorality. 
1Corinthians5:10 Yet in no way was I referring to avoiding contact with unbelievers who are immoral, or greedy, or swindlers, or those who worship other gods—for that would mean you’d have to isolate yourself from the world entirely!" 
1Corinthians5:11 But now I’m writing to you so that you would exclude from your fellowship anyone who calls himself a fellow believer and practices sexual immorality, or is consumed with greed, or is an idolater, or is verbally abusive or a drunkard or a swindler. Don’t mingle with them or even have a meal with someone like that." 
1Corinthians5:12 What right do I have to pronounce judgment on unbelievers? That’s God’s responsibility. But those who are inside the church family are our responsibility to discern and judge. So it’s your duty to remove that wicked one from among you. 
1Corinthians5:13  
1Corinthians6:1 Furthermore, how dare you take a fellow believer to court! It is wrong to drag him before the unrighteous to settle a legal dispute. Isn’t it better to take him before God’s holy believers to settle the matter?" 
1Corinthians6:2 Don’t you realize that we, the holy ones, will judge the universe? If the unbelieving world is under your jurisdiction, you should be fully competent to settle these trivial lawsuits among yourselves." 
1Corinthians6:3 For surely you know that we will one day judge angels, let alone these everyday matters." 
1Corinthians6:4 Don’t you realize that you are bringing your issues before civil judges appointed by people who have no standing within the church? 
1Corinthians6:5 What a shame that there is not one within the church who has the spirit of wisdom who could arbitrate these disputes and reconcile the offended parties! 
1Corinthians6:6 It’s not right for a believer to sue a fellow believer—and especially to bring it before the unbelievers. 
1Corinthians6:7 Don’t you realize that when you drag another believer into court you’re providing the evidence that you are already defeated? Wouldn’t it be better to accept the fact that someone is trying to cheat and take advantage of you, and simply choose the high road? At times it is better to just accept injustice and even to let someone take advantage of you, rather than to expose our conflicts publicly before unbelievers." 
1Corinthians6:8 But instead you keep cheating and doing wrong to your brothers and sisters, and then request that unbelievers render their judgment!" 
1Corinthians6:9 Surely you must know that people who practice evil cannot possess God’s kingdom realm. Stop being deceived! People who continue to engage in sexual immorality, idolatry, adultery, sexual perversion, homosexuality," 
1Corinthians6:10 fraud, greed, drunkenness, verbal abuse, or extortion—these will not inherit God’s kingdom realm." 
1Corinthians6:11 It’s true that some of you once lived in those lifestyles, but now you have been purified from sin, made holy, and given a perfect standing before God—all because of the power of the name of the Lord Jesus, the Messiah, and through our union with the Spirit of our God." 
1Corinthians6:12 It’s true that our freedom allows us to do anything, but that doesn’t mean that everything we do is good for us. I’m free to do as I choose, but I choose to never be enslaved to anything." 
1Corinthians6:13 Some have said, “I eat to live and I live to eat!” But God will do away with it all. The body was not created for illicit sex, but to serve and worship our Lord Jesus, who can fill the body with himself." 
1Corinthians6:14 Now the God who raised up our Lord from the grave will awaken and raise us up through his mighty power! 
1Corinthians6:15 Don’t you know that your bodies belong to Christ as his body parts? Should one presume to take the members of Christ’s body and make them into members of a harlot? Absolutely not! 
1Corinthians6:16 Aren’t you aware of the fact that when anyone sleeps with a prostitute he becomes a part of her, and she becomes a part of him? For it has been declared: The two become a single body." 
1Corinthians6:17 But the one who joins himself to the Lord is mingled into one spirit with him. 
1Corinthians6:18 This is why you must keep running away from sexual immorality. For every other sin a person commits is external to the body, but immorality involves sinning against your own body." 
1Corinthians6:19 Have you forgotten that your body is now the sacred temple of the Spirit of Holiness, who lives in you? You don’t belong to yourself any longer, for the gift of God, the Holy Spirit, lives inside your sanctuary." 
1Corinthians6:20 You were God’s expensive purchase, paid for with tears of blood, so by all means, then, use your body to bring glory to God!" 
1Corinthians7:1 Now for my response concerning the issues you’ve asked me to address. You wrote saying, “It is proper for a man to live in celibacy.”" 
1Corinthians7:2 Perhaps. But because of the danger of immorality, each husband should have sexual intimacy with his wife and each wife should have sexual intimacy with her husband." 
1Corinthians7:3 A husband has the responsibility of meeting the sexual needs of his wife, and likewise a wife to her husband." 
1Corinthians7:4 Neither the husband nor the wife have exclusive rights to their own bodies, but those rights are to be surrendered to the other." 
1Corinthians7:5 So don’t continue to refuse your spouse those rights, except perhaps by mutual agreement for a specified time so that you can both be devoted to prayer. And then you should resume your physical pleasure so that the Adversary cannot take advantage of you because of the desires of your body." 
1Corinthians7:6 I’m not giving you a divine command, but my godly advice." 
1Corinthians7:7 I would wish that all of you could live unmarried, just as I do. Yet I understand that we are all decidedly different, with each having a special grace for one thing or another." 
1Corinthians7:8 So let me say to the unmarried and those who have lost their spouses, it is fine for you to remain single as I am." 
1Corinthians7:9 But if you have no power over your passions, then you should go ahead and marry, for marriage is far better than a continual battle with lust." 
1Corinthians7:10 And to those who are married, I give this charge—which is not mine, but the Lord’s —that the wife should not depart from her husband." 
1Corinthians7:11 But if she does, then she should either remain unmarried or reconcile with her husband. And a husband must not divorce his wife." 
1Corinthians7:12 To the rest I say, which is not a saying of the Lord, if a brother has an unbelieving wife and she is content to live with him, he should not divorce her." 
1Corinthians7:13 And if a woman has a husband who is not a believer and he is content to live with her, she should not divorce him." 
1Corinthians7:14 For the unbelieving husband has been made holy by his believing wife. And the unbelieving wife has been made holy by her believing husband by virtue of his or her sacred union to a believer. Otherwise, the children from this union would be unclean, but in fact, they are holy." 
1Corinthians7:15 But if the unbelieving spouse wants a divorce, then let it be so. In this situation the believing spouse is not bound to the marriage, for God has called us to live in peace." 
1Corinthians7:16 And wives, for all you know you could one day lead your husband to salvation. Or husbands, how do you know for sure that you could not one day lead your wife to salvation?" 
1Corinthians7:17 May all believers continue to live the wonderful lives God has called them to live, according to what he assigns for each person, for this is what I teach to believers everywhere." 
1Corinthians7:18 If when you were called to follow Jesus you were circumcised, it would be futile to try to undo the circumcision. And if you were called while yet uncircumcised, there is no need to be circumcised." 
1Corinthians7:19 Your identity before God has nothing to do with circumcision or uncircumcision. What really matters is following God’s commandments. 
1Corinthians7:20 So everyone should continue to live faithful in the situation of life in which they were called to follow Jesus. 
1Corinthians7:21 Were you a slave when you heard the call to follow Jesus? Don’t let that concern you. Even if you can gain your freedom, make the most of the opportunity." 
1Corinthians7:22 For truly, if you are called to a life-union with the Lord, you are already a free man! And those who were called to follow Jesus when they were free are now the Messiah’s slaves." 
1Corinthians7:23 Since a great price was paid for your redemption, stop having the mind-set of a slave." 
1Corinthians7:24 Brothers and sisters, we must remain in close communion with God, no matter what our situation was when we were first called to follow Jesus." 
1Corinthians7:25 Now let me address the issue of singleness. I must confess, I have no command to give you that comes directly from the Lord. But let me share my thoughts on the matter, as coming from one who has experienced the mercy of the Lord to keep me faithful to him." 
1Corinthians7:26 Because of the severe pressure we are in, I recommend you remain as you are." 
1Corinthians7:27 If you are married, stay in the marriage. If you are single, don’t rush into marriage." 
1Corinthians7:28 But if you do get married, you haven’t sinned. It’s just that I would want to spare you the problems you’ll face with the extra challenges of being married." 
1Corinthians7:29 My friends, what I mean is this. The urgency of our times mean that from now on, those who have wives should live as though without them." 
1Corinthians7:30 And those who weep should forget their tears. And those who rejoice will have no time to celebrate. And those who purchase items will have no time to enjoy them. 
1Corinthians7:31 We are to live as those who live in the world but are not absorbed by it, for the world as we know it is quickly passing away." 
1Corinthians7:32 Because of this, we need to live as free from anxiety as possible. For a single man is focused on the things of the Lord and how he may please him." 
1Corinthians7:33 But a married man is pulled in two directions, for he is concerned about both the things of God and the things of the world in order to please his wife." 
1Corinthians7:34 And the single woman is focused on the things of the Lord so she can be holy both in body and spirit. But a married woman is concerned about the things of the world and how she may please her husband. 
1Corinthians7:35 I am trying to help you and make things easier for you and not make things difficult, but so that you would have undistracted devotion, serving the Lord constantly with an undivided heart." 
1Corinthians7:36 However, if a man has decided to serve God as a single person, yet changes his mind and finds himself in love with a woman, although he never intended to marry, let him go ahead and marry her; it is not a sin to do so." 
1Corinthians7:37 On the other hand, if a man stands firm in his heart to remain single, and is under no compulsion to get married but has control over his passions and is determined to remain celibate, he has chosen well." 
1Corinthians7:38 So then, the one who marries his fiancée does well and the one who chooses not to marry her does better." 
1Corinthians7:39 A wife is bound by the marriage covenant as long as her husband is living. But if the husband dies, she is free to marry again as she desires—but, of course, he should be a believer in the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:40 However, in my opinion (and I think that I too have the Spirit of God), she would be happier if she remained single." 
1Corinthians8:1 Now let me address the issue of food offered in sacrifice to idols. It seems that everyone believes his own opinion is right on this matter. How easily we get puffed up over our opinions! But love builds up the structure of our new life. 
1Corinthians8:2 If anyone thinks of himself as a know-it-all, he still has a lot to learn." 
1Corinthians8:3 But if a person passionately loves God, he will possess the knowledge of God." 
1Corinthians8:4 Concerning food sacrificed as offerings to idols, we all know that an idol is nothing, for there is no God but one." 
1Corinthians8:5 Although there may be many so-called gods in this world, and in heaven there may be many “gods,” “lords,” and “masters,”" 
1Corinthians8:6 yet for us there is only one God—the Father. Out of him is all things, and our lives are lived for him. And there is one Lord, Jesus, the Anointed One, through whom we and all things exist." 
1Corinthians8:7 But not everyone has this revelation. For some were formerly idolaters, who consider idols as real and living. That’s why they consider the food offered to that “god” as defiled. And their weak consciences become defiled if they eat it." 
1Corinthians8:8 Yes, we know that what you eat will not bring you closer to God. You are no better if you don’t eat certain foods and no better if you do." 
1Corinthians8:9 But you must be careful that the liberty you exercise in eating food offered to idols doesn’t offend the weak believers. 
1Corinthians8:10 For if a believer with a weak conscience sees you, who have a greater understanding, dining in an idol’s temple, won’t this be a temptation to him to violate his own conscience and eat food offered to idols?" 
1Corinthians8:11 So, in effect, by exercising your understanding of freedom, you have ruined this weak believer, a brother for whom Christ has died!" 
1Corinthians8:12 And when you offend weaker believers by wounding their consciences in this way, you also offend the Anointed One!" 
1Corinthians8:13 So I conclude that if my eating certain food deeply offends my brother and hinders his advance in Christ, I will never eat it again. I don’t want to be guilty of causing my brother or sister to be wounded and defeated." 
1Corinthians9:1 Am I not completely free and unrestrained? Absolutely! Am I not an apostle? Of course! Haven’t I had a personal encounter with our Jesus face-to-face— and continue to see him? Emphatically yes! Aren’t you all the proof of my ministry in the Lord? Certainly! 
1Corinthians9:2 If others do not recognize me as their apostle, at least you are bound to do so, for now your lives are joined to the Lord. You are the living proof, the certificate of my apostleship." 
1Corinthians9:3 So to those who want to continually criticize my apostolic ministry, here’s my statement of defense." 
1Corinthians9:4 Don’t we apostles have the right to be supported financially? 
1Corinthians9:5 Don’t we have the right to travel accompanied by our believing wives and be supported as a couple, as do the other apostles, such as Peter the Rock and the Lord’s brothers?" 
1Corinthians9:6 Of course we do! Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to stop working for a living? 
1Corinthians9:7 Who serves in the military at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not enjoy the grapes for himself? Who would nurture and shepherd a flock and never get to drink its fresh milk? 
1Corinthians9:8 Am I merely giving you my own opinions, or does the Torah teach the same things?" 
1Corinthians9:9 For it is written in the law of Moses: You should never put a muzzle over the mouth of an ox while he is treading out the grain. Tell me, is God only talking about oxen here?" 
1Corinthians9:10 Doesn’t he also give us this principle so that we won’t withhold support from his workers? It was written so that we would understand that the one spiritually “plowing” and spiritually “treading out the grain” also labors with the expectation of enjoying the harvest. 
1Corinthians9:11 So, if we’ve sowed many spiritual gifts among you, is it too much to expect to reap material gifts from you?" 
1Corinthians9:12 And if you have supported others, don’t we rightfully deserve this privilege even more? But as you know, we haven’t used that right. Instead, we have continued to support ourselves so that we would never be a hindrance to the spread of the gospel of Christ." 
1Corinthians9:13 Don’t you know that the priests employed in sacred duty in the temple are provided for by temple resources? And the priests who serve at the altar receive a portion of the offerings? 
1Corinthians9:14 In the same way, the Lord has directed those who proclaim the gospel to receive their living by the gospel. As for me, I’ve preferred to never use any of these rights for myself." 
1Corinthians9:15 And keep in mind that I’m not writing all this because I’m hinting that you should support me. Actually, I’d rather die than to have anyone rob me of this joyous reason for boasting!" 
1Corinthians9:16 For you see, even though I proclaim the good news, I can’t take the credit for my labors, for I am compelled to fulfill my duty by completing this work. It would be agony to me if I did not constantly preach the gospel!" 
1Corinthians9:17 If it were my own idea to preach as a way to make a living, I would expect to be paid. Since it’s not my idea but God’s, who commissioned me, I am entrusted with the stewardship of the gospel whether or not I’m paid." 
1Corinthians9:18 So then, where is my reward? It is found in continually depositing the good news into people’s hearts, without obligation, free of charge, and not insisting on my rights to be financially supported." 
1Corinthians9:19 Now, even though I am free from obligations to others, I joyfully make myself a servant to all in order to win as many converts as possible." 
1Corinthians9:20 I became Jewish to the Jewish people in order to win them to the Messiah. I became like one under the law to gain the people who were stuck under the law, even though I myself am not under the law." 
1Corinthians9:21 And to those who are without the Jewish laws, I became like them, as one without the Jewish laws, in order to win them, although I’m not outside the law of God but under the law of Christ." 
1Corinthians9:22 I became “weak” to the weak to win the weak. I have adapted to the culture of every place I’ve gone so that I could more easily win people to Christ. 
1Corinthians9:23 I’ve done all this so that I would become God’s partner for the sake of the gospel. 
1Corinthians9:24 Isn’t it obvious that all runners on the racetrack keep on running to win, but only one receives the victor’s prize? Yet each one of you must run the race to be victorious." 
1Corinthians9:25 A true athlete will be disciplined in every respect, practicing constant self-control in order to win a laurel wreath that quickly withers. But we run our race to win a victor’s crown that will last forever." 
1Corinthians9:26 For that reason, I don’t run just for exercise or box like one throwing aimless punches," 
1Corinthians9:27 but I train like a champion athlete. I subdue my body and get it under my control, so that after preaching the good news to others I myself won’t be disqualified." 
1Corinthians10:1 My dear fellow believers, you need to understand that all of our Jewish ancestors who walked through a wilderness long ago were under the glory cloud and passed through the waters of the sea on both sides." 
1Corinthians10:2 They were all baptized into the cloud of glory, into the fellowship of Moses, and into the sea." 
1Corinthians10:3 They all ate the same heavenly manna 
1Corinthians10:4 and drank water from the same spiritual rock that traveled with them—and that Rock was Christ himself. 
1Corinthians10:5 Yet God was not pleased with most of them, and their dead bodies were scattered around the wilderness." 
1Corinthians10:6 Now, all these things serve as types and pictures for us—lessons that teach us not to fail in the same way by callously craving worthless things" 
1Corinthians10:7 and practicing idolatry, as some of them did. For it is written: The people settled in to their unrestrained revelry, with feasting and drinking, then they rose up and became wildly out of control!" 
1Corinthians10:8 Neither should we commit sexual immorality, as some of them did, which caused the death of twenty-three thousand on a single day." 
1Corinthians10:9 Nor should we ever provoke the Lord, as some of them did by putting him to outrageous tests that resulted in their death from snakebites day after day." 
1Corinthians10:10 And we must not embrace their ways by complaining—grumbling with discontent, as many of them did, and were killed by the destroyer!" 
1Corinthians10:11 All the tests they endured on their way through the wilderness are a symbolic picture, an example that provides us with a warning so that we can learn through what they experienced. For we live in a time when the purpose of all the ages past is now completing its goal within us." 
1Corinthians10:12 So beware if you think it could never happen to you, lest your pride becomes your downfall." 
1Corinthians10:13 We all experience times of testing, which is normal for every human being. But God will be faithful to you. He will screen and filter the severity, nature, and timing of every test or trial you face so that you can bear it. And each test is an opportunity to trust him more, for along with every trial God has provided for you a way of escape that will bring you out of it victoriously." 
1Corinthians10:14 My cherished friends, keep on running far away from idolatry." 
1Corinthians10:15 I know I am writing to thoughtful people, so carefully consider what I say." 
1Corinthians10:16 For when we pray for the blessing of the communion cup, isn’t this our co-participation with the blood of Jesus? And the bread that we distribute, isn’t this the bread of our co-participation with the body of Christ?" 
1Corinthians10:17 For although we’re many, we become one loaf of bread and one body as we feast together on one loaf." 
1Corinthians10:18 Consider the people of Israel when they fell into idolatry. When they ate the sacrifices offered to the gods, weren’t they becoming communal participants in what was sacrificed?" 
1Corinthians10:19 Now, am I saying that idols and the sacrifices offered to them have any value?" 
1Corinthians10:20 Absolutely not! However, I am implying that when an unbeliever offers a sacrifice to an idol, it is not offered to the true God but to a demon. I don’t want you to be participants with demons!" 
1Corinthians10:21 You can’t drink from the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You can’t feast at the table of the Lord and feast at the table of demons. 
1Corinthians10:22 Who would ever want to arouse the Lord’s jealousy? Is that something you think you’re strong enough to endure? 
1Corinthians10:23 You say, “ Under grace there are no rules and we’re free to do anything we please.” Not exactly. Because not everything promotes growth in others. Your slogan, “We’re allowed to do anything we choose,” may be true—but not everything causes the spiritual advancement of others." 
1Corinthians10:24 So don’t always seek what is best for you at the expense of another. 
1Corinthians10:25 Yes, you are free to eat anything without worrying about your conscience," 
1Corinthians10:26 for the earth and all its abundance belongs to the Lord. 
1Corinthians10:27 So if an unbeliever invites you to dinner, go ahead and eat whatever is served, without asking questions concerning where it came from." 
1Corinthians10:28 But if he goes out of his way to inform you that the meat was actually an offering sacrificed to idols, then you should pass, not only for his sake but because of his conscience." 
1Corinthians10:29 I’m talking about someone else’s conscience, not yours. What good is there in doing what you please if it’s condemned by someone else?" 
1Corinthians10:30 So if I voluntarily participate, why should I be judged for celebrating my freedom?" 
1Corinthians10:31 Whether you eat or drink, live your life in a way that glorifies and honors God." 
1Corinthians10:32 And make sure you’re not offending Jews or Greeks or any part of God’s assembly over your personal preferences. 
1Corinthians10:33 Follow my example, for I try to please everyone in all things, rather than putting my liberty first. I sincerely attempt to do anything I can so that others may be saved." 
1Corinthians11:1 I want you to pattern your lives after me, just as I pattern mine after Christ." 
1Corinthians11:2 And I give you full credit for always keeping me in mind as you follow carefully the substance of my instructions that I’ve taught you. 
1Corinthians11:3 But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every person, and Adam was the head of Eve, and God is the head of the Messiah." 
1Corinthians11:4 Any man who leads public worship, and prays or prophesies with a shawl hanging down over his head, shows disrespect to his head, which is Christ." 
1Corinthians11:5 And if any woman in a place of leadership within the church prays or prophesies in public with her long hair disheveled, she shows disrespect to her head, which is her husband, for this would be the same as having her head shaved." 
1Corinthians11:6 If a woman who wants to be in leadership will not conform to the customs of what is proper for women, she might as well cut off her hair. But if it’s disgraceful for her to have her hair cut off or her head shaved, let her cover her head." 
1Corinthians11:7 A man in leadership is under no obligation to have his head covered in the public gatherings, because he is the portrait of God and reflects his glory. The woman, on the other hand, reflects the glory of her husband," 
1Corinthians11:8 for man was not created from woman but woman from man. 
1Corinthians11:9 By the same token, the man was not created because the woman needed him; the woman was created because the man needed her." 
1Corinthians11:10 For this reason she should have authority over the head because of the angels. 
1Corinthians11:11 So then, I have to insist that in the Lord, neither is woman inferior to man nor is man inferior to woman." 
1Corinthians11:12 For just as woman was taken from the side of man, in the same way man is taken from the womb of woman. God, as the source of all things, designed it this way." 
1Corinthians11:13 So then you can decide for yourselves—is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her hair unbound? 
1Corinthians11:14 Doesn’t our long-established cultural tradition teach us that if a man has long hair that is ornamentally arranged it invites disgrace, but if a woman has long hair that is ornamentally arranged it is her glory?" 
1Corinthians11:15 This is because long hair is the endowment that God has given her as a head covering. 
1Corinthians11:16 If someone wants to quarrel about this, I want you to know that we have no intention to start an argument, neither I nor the congregations of God." 
1Corinthians11:17 Now, on this next matter, I wish I could commend you, but I cannot, because when you meet together as a church family it is doing more harm than good!" 
1Corinthians11:18 I’ve been told many times that when you meet as a congregation, divisions and cliques emerge—and to some extent, this doesn’t surprise me." 
1Corinthians11:19 Differences of opinion are unavoidable, yet they will reveal which ones among you truly have God’s approval." 
1Corinthians11:20 When all of your house churches gather as one church family, you are not really properly celebrating the Lord’s Supper." 
1Corinthians11:21 For when it comes time to eat, some gobble down their food before anything is given to others—one is left hungry while others become drunk!" 
1Corinthians11:22 Don’t you all have homes where you can eat and drink? Don’t you realize that you’re showing a superior attitude by humiliating those who have nothing? Are you trying to show contempt for God’s beloved church? How should I address this appropriately? If you’re looking for my approval, you won’t find it!" 
1Corinthians11:23 I have handed down to you what came to me by direct revelation from the Lord himself. The same night in which he was handed over, he took bread" 
1Corinthians11:24 and gave thanks. Then he distributed it to the disciples and said, “Take it and eat your fill. It is my body, which is given for you. Do this to remember me.”" 
1Corinthians11:25 He did the same with the cup of wine after supper and said, “This cup seals the new covenant with my blood. Drink it—and whenever you drink this, do it to remember me.”" 
1Corinthians11:26 Whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you are retelling the story, proclaiming our Lord’s death until he comes." 
1Corinthians11:27 For this reason, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in the wrong spirit will be guilty of dishonoring the body and blood of the Lord." 
1Corinthians11:28 So let each individual first evaluate his own attitude and only then eat the bread and drink the cup. 
1Corinthians11:29 For continually eating and drinking with a wrong spirit will bring judgment upon yourself by not recognizing the body. 
1Corinthians11:30 This insensitivity is why many of you are weak, chronically ill, and some even dying." 
1Corinthians11:31 If we have examined ourselves, we should not be judged." 
1Corinthians11:32 But when we are judged, it is the Lord’s training so that we will not be condemned along with the world." 
1Corinthians11:33 So then, my fellow believers, when you assemble as one to share a meal, show respect for one another and wait for all to be served." 
1Corinthians11:34 If you are that hungry, eat at home first, so that when you gather together you will not bring judgment upon yourself. When I come to you, I will answer the other questions you asked me in your letter." 
1Corinthians12:1 My fellow believers, I don’t want you to be confused about spiritual realities." 
1Corinthians12:2 For you know full well that when you were unbelievers you were often led astray in one way or another by your worship of idols, which are incapable of talking with you." 
1Corinthians12:3 Therefore, I want to impart to you an understanding of the following: No one speaking by the Spirit of God would ever say, “Jesus is the accursed one.” No one can say, “Jesus is the Lord Yahweh,” unless the Holy Spirit is speaking through him." 
1Corinthians12:4 It is the same Holy Spirit who continues to distribute many different varieties of gifts. 
1Corinthians12:5 The Lord Yahweh is one, and he is the one who apportions to believers different varieties of ministries." 
1Corinthians12:6 The same God distributes different kinds of miracles that accomplish different results through each believer’s gift and ministry as he energizes and activates them. 
1Corinthians12:7 Each believer is given continuous revelation by the Holy Spirit to benefit not just himself but all. 
1Corinthians12:8 For example: The Spirit gives to one the gift of the word of wisdom. To another, the same Spirit gives the gift of the word of revelation knowledge." 
1Corinthians12:9 And to another, the same Spirit gives the gift of faith. And to another, the same Spirit gives gifts of healing." 
1Corinthians12:10 And to another the power to work miracles. And to another the gift of prophecy. And to another the gift to discern what the Spirit is speaking. And to another the gift of speaking different kinds of tongues. And to another the gift of interpretation of tongues. 
1Corinthians12:11 Remember, it is the same Holy Spirit who distributes, activates, and operates these different gifts as he chooses for each believer." 
1Corinthians12:12 Just as the human body is one, though it has many parts that together form one body, so too is Christ." 
1Corinthians12:13 For by one Spirit we all were immersed and mingled into one single body. And no matter our status—whether we are Jews or non-Jews, oppressed or free—we are all privileged to drink deeply of the same Holy Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:14 In fact, the human body is not one single part but rather many parts mingled into one." 
1Corinthians12:15 So if the foot were to say, “Since I’m not a hand, I’m not a part of the body,” it’s forgetting that it is still a vital part of the body." 
1Corinthians12:16 And if the ear were to say, “Since I’m not an eye, I’m not really a part of the body,” it’s forgetting that it is still an important part of the body." 
1Corinthians12:17 Think of it this way. If the whole body were just an eyeball, how could it hear sounds? And if the whole body were just an ear, how could it smell different fragrances?" 
1Corinthians12:18 But God has carefully designed each member and placed it in the body to function as he desires. 
1Corinthians12:19 A diversity is required, for if the body consisted of one single part, there wouldn’t be a body at all!" 
1Corinthians12:20 So now we see that there are many differing parts and functions, but one body." 
1Corinthians12:21 It would be wrong for the eye to say to the hand, “I don’t need you,” and equally wrong if the head said to the foot, “I don’t need you.”" 
1Corinthians12:22 In fact, the weaker our parts, the more vital and essential they are." 
1Corinthians12:23 The body parts we think are less honorable we treat with greater respect. And the body parts that need to be covered in public we treat with propriety and clothe them. 
1Corinthians12:24 But some of our body parts don’t require as much attention. Instead, God has mingled the body parts together, giving greater honor to the “lesser” members who lacked it." 
1Corinthians12:25 He has done this intentionally so that every member would look after the others with mutual concern, and so that there will be no division in the body." 
1Corinthians12:26 In that way, whatever happens to one member happens to all. If one suffers, everyone suffers. If one is honored, everyone rejoices." 
1Corinthians12:27 You are the body of the Anointed One, and each of you is a unique and vital part of it." 
1Corinthians12:28 God has placed in the church the following: First apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then those with gifts of miracles, gifts of divine healing, gifts of revelation knowledge, gifts of leadership, and gifts of different kinds of tongues." 
1Corinthians12:29 Not everyone is an apostle or a prophet or a teacher. Not everyone performs miracles 
1Corinthians12:30 or has gifts of healing or speaks in tongues or interprets tongues. 
1Corinthians12:31 But you should all constantly boil over with passion in seeking the higher gifts. And now I will show you a superior way to live that is beyond comparison! 
1Corinthians13:1 If I were to speak with eloquence in earth’s many languages, and in the heavenly tongues of angels, yet I didn’t express myself with love, my words would be reduced to the hollow sound of nothing more than a clanging cymbal." 
1Corinthians13:2 And if I were to have the gift of prophecy with a profound understanding of God’s hidden secrets, and if I possessed unending supernatural knowledge, and if I had the greatest gift of faith that could move mountains, but have never learned to love, then I am nothing." 
1Corinthians13:3 And if I were to be so generous as to give away everything I owned to feed the poor, and to offer my body to be burned as a martyr, without the pure motive of love, I would gain nothing of value." 
1Corinthians13:4 Love is large and incredibly patient. Love is gentle and consistently kind to all. It refuses to be jealous when blessing comes to someone else. Love does not brag about one’s achievements nor inflate its own importance. 
1Corinthians13:5 Love does not traffic in shame and disrespect, nor selfishly seek its own honor. Love is not easily irritated or quick to take offense." 
1Corinthians13:6 Love joyfully celebrates honesty and finds no delight in what is wrong. 
1Corinthians13:7 Love is a safe place of shelter, for it never stops believing the best for others. Love never takes failure as defeat, for it never gives up." 
1Corinthians13:8 Love never stops loving. It extends beyond the gift of prophecy, which eventually fades away. It is more enduring than tongues, which will one day fall silent. Love remains long after words of knowledge are forgotten." 
1Corinthians13:9 Our present knowledge and our prophecies are but partial," 
1Corinthians13:10 but when love’s perfection arrives, the partial will fade away." 
1Corinthians13:11 When I was a child, I spoke about childish matters, for I saw things like a child and reasoned like a child. But the day came when I matured, and I set aside my childish ways." 
1Corinthians13:12 For now we see but a faint reflection of riddles and mysteries as though reflected in a mirror, but one day we will see face-to-face. My understanding is incomplete now, but one day I will understand everything, just as everything about me has been fully understood." 
1Corinthians13:13 Until then, there are three things that remain: faith, hope, and love—yet love surpasses them all. So above all else, let love be the beautiful prize for which you run." 
1Corinthians14:1 It is good that you are enthusiastic and passionate about spiritual gifts, especially prophecy." 
1Corinthians14:2 When someone speaks in tongues, no one understands a word he says, because he’s not speaking to people, but to God—he is speaking intimate mysteries in the Spirit." 
1Corinthians14:3 But when someone prophesies, he speaks to encourage people, to build them up, and to bring them comfort." 
1Corinthians14:4 The one who speaks in tongues advances his own spiritual progress, while the one who prophesies builds up the church." 
1Corinthians14:5 I would be delighted if you all spoke in tongues, but I desire even more that you impart prophetic revelation to others. Greater gain comes through the one who prophesies than the one who speaks in tongues, unless there is interpretation so that it builds up the entire church." 
1Corinthians14:6 My dear friends, what good is it if I come to you always speaking in tongues? But if I come with a clear revelation from God, or with insight, or with a prophecy, or with a clear teaching, I can enrich you." 
1Corinthians14:7 Similarly, if musical instruments, such as flutes or stringed instruments, are out of tune and don’t play the arrangement clearly, how will anyone recognize the melody?" 
1Corinthians14:8 If the bugle makes a garbled sound, who will recognize the signal to show up for the battle?" 
1Corinthians14:9 So it is with you. Unless you speak in a language that’s easily understood, how will anyone know what you’re talking about? You might as well save your breath!" 
1Corinthians14:10 I suppose that the world has all sorts of languages, and each conveys meaning to the ones who speak it." 
1Corinthians14:11 But I am like a foreigner if I don’t understand the language, and the speaker will be like a foreigner to me." 
1Corinthians14:12 And that’s what’s happening among you. You are so passionate about embracing the manifestations of the Holy Spirit! Now become even more passionate about the things that strengthen the entire church. 
1Corinthians14:13 So then, if you speak in a tongue, pray for the interpretation to be able to unfold the meaning of what you are saying." 
1Corinthians14:14 For if I am praying in a tongue, my spirit is engaged in prayer but I have no clear understanding of what is being said." 
1Corinthians14:15 So here’s what I’ve concluded. I will pray in the Spirit, but I will also pray with my mind engaged. I will sing rapturous praises in the Spirit, but I will also sing with my mind engaged." 
1Corinthians14:16 Otherwise, if you are praising God in your spirit, how could someone without the gift participate by adding his “amen” to your giving of thanks, since he doesn’t have a clue of what you’re saying?" 
1Corinthians14:17 Your praise to God is admirable, but it does nothing to strengthen and build up others." 
1Corinthians14:18 I give thanks to God that I speak in tongues more than all of you," 
1Corinthians14:19 but in the church setting I would rather speak five words that can be understood than ten thousand exotic words in a tongue. That way I could have a role in teaching others. 
1Corinthians14:20 Beloved ones, don’t remain as immature children in your reasoning. As it relates to evil, be like newborns, but in your thinking be mature adults." 
1Corinthians14:21 For it stands written in the law: I will bring my message to this people with strange tongues and foreign lips, yet even then they still will not listen to me, says the Lord." 
1Corinthians14:22 So then, tongues are not a sign for believers, but a miracle for unbelievers. Prophecy, on the other hand, is not for unbelievers, but a miracle sign for believers." 
1Corinthians14:23 If the entire church comes together and everyone is speaking in tongues, won’t the visitors say that you have lost your minds?" 
1Corinthians14:24 But if everyone is prophesying, and an unbeliever or one without the gift enters your meeting, he will be convicted by all that he hears and will be called to account," 
1Corinthians14:25 for the intimate secrets of his heart will be brought to light. He will be mystified and fall facedown in worship and say, “God is truly among you!”" 
1Corinthians14:26 Beloved friends, what does all this imply? When you conduct your meetings, you should always let everything be done to build up the church family. Whether you share a song of praise, a teaching, a divine revelation, or a tongue and interpretation, let each one contribute what strengthens others." 
1Corinthians14:27 If someone speaks in a tongue, it should be two or three, one after another, with someone interpreting." 
1Corinthians14:28 If there’s no one with the interpretation, then he should remain silent in the meeting, content to speak to himself and to God." 
1Corinthians14:29 And the same with prophecy. Let two or three prophets prophesy and let the other prophets carefully evaluate and discern what is being said. 
1Corinthians14:30 But if someone receives a revelation while someone else is still speaking, the one speaking should conclude and allow the one with fresh revelation the opportunity to share it." 
1Corinthians14:31 For you can all prophesy in turn and in an environment where all present can be instructed, encouraged, and strengthened." 
1Corinthians14:32 The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets. 
1Corinthians14:33 For God is the God of harmony, not confusion, as is the pattern in all the churches of God’s holy believers." 
1Corinthians14:34 The women should be respectfully silent during the evaluation of prophecy in the meetings. They are not allowed to interrupt, but are to be in a support role, as in fact the law teaches." 
1Corinthians14:35 If they want to inquire about something, let them ask their husbands when they get home, for a woman embarrasses herself when she constantly interrupts the church meeting." 
1Corinthians14:36 Do you actually think that you were the starting point for the Word of God going forth? Were you the only ones it was sent to? I don’t think so! 
1Corinthians14:37 If anyone considers himself to be a prophet or a spiritual person, let him discern that what I’m writing to you carries the Lord’s authority." 
1Corinthians14:38 And if anyone continues not to recognize this, he should not be recognized!" 
1Corinthians14:39 So, beloved friends, with all this in mind, be passionate to prophesy and don’t forbid anyone from speaking in tongues," 
1Corinthians14:40 doing all things in a beautiful and orderly way. 
1Corinthians15:1 Dear friends, let me give you clearly the heart of the gospel that I’ve preached to you—the good news that you have heartily received and on which you stand." 
1Corinthians15:2 For it is through the revelation of the gospel that you are being saved, if you fasten your life firmly to the message I’ve taught you, unless you have believed in vain." 
1Corinthians15:3 For I have shared with you what I have received and what is of utmost importance: The Messiah died for our sins, fulfilling the prophecies of the Scriptures." 
1Corinthians15:4 He was buried in a tomb and was raised from the dead after three days, as foretold in the Scriptures." 
1Corinthians15:5 Then he appeared to Peter the Rock and to the twelve apostles. 
1Corinthians15:6 He also appeared to more than five hundred of his followers at the same time, most of whom are still alive as I write this, though a few have passed away." 
1Corinthians15:7 Then he appeared to Jacob and to all the apostles. 
1Corinthians15:8 Last of all he appeared in front of me, like one born prematurely, ripped from the womb." 
1Corinthians15:9 Yes, I am the most insignificant of all the apostles, unworthy even to be called an apostle, because I hunted down believers and persecuted God’s church." 
1Corinthians15:10 But God’s amazing grace has made me who I am! And his grace to me was not fruitless. In fact, I worked harder than all the rest, yet not in my own strength but God’s, for his empowering grace is poured out upon me." 
1Corinthians15:11 So this is what we all have taught you, and whether it was through me or someone else, you have now believed the gospel." 
1Corinthians15:12 The message we preach is Christ, who has been raised from the dead. So how could any of you possibly say there is no resurrection of the dead?" 
1Corinthians15:13 For if there is no such thing as a resurrection from the dead, then not even Christ has been raised." 
1Corinthians15:14 And if Christ has not been raised, all of our preaching has been for nothing and your faith is useless." 
1Corinthians15:15 Moreover, if the dead are not raised, that would mean that we are false witnesses who are misrepresenting God. And that would mean that we have preached a lie, stating that God raised him from the dead, if in reality he didn’t." 
1Corinthians15:16 If the dead aren’t raised up, that would mean that Christ has not been raised up either." 
1Corinthians15:17 And if Christ is not alive, you are still lost in your sins and your faith is a fantasy." 
1Corinthians15:18 It would also mean that those believers in Christ who have passed away have simply perished. 
1Corinthians15:19 If the only benefit of our hope in Christ is limited to this life on earth, we deserve to be pitied more than all others!" 
1Corinthians15:20 But the truth is, Christ is risen from the dead, as the firstfruit of a great resurrection harvest of those who have died." 
1Corinthians15:21 For since death came through a man, Adam, it is fitting that the resurrection of the dead has also come through a man, Christ." 
1Corinthians15:22 Even as all who are in Adam die, so also all who are in Christ will be made alive." 
1Corinthians15:23 But each one in his proper order: Christ, the firstfruits, then those who belong to Christ in his presence." 
1Corinthians15:24 Then the final stage of completion comes, when he will bring to an end every other rulership, authority, and power, and he will hand over his kingdom to Father God." 
1Corinthians15:25 Until then he is destined to reign as King until all hostility has been subdued and placed under his feet. 
1Corinthians15:26 And the last enemy to be subdued and eliminated is death itself. 
1Corinthians15:27 The Father has placed all things in subjection under the feet of Christ. Yet when it says, “all things,” it is understood that the Father does not include himself, for he is the one who placed all things in subjection to Christ." 
1Corinthians15:28 However, when everything is subdued and in submission to him, then the Son himself will be subject to the Father, who put all things under his feet. This is so that Father God will be everything in everyone!" 
1Corinthians15:29 If there is no resurrection, what do these people think they’re doing when they are baptized for the dead? If the dead aren’t raised, why be baptized for them?" 
1Corinthians15:30 And why would we be risking our lives every day? 
1Corinthians15:31 My brothers and sisters, I continually face death. This is as sure as my boasting of you and our co-union together in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ, who gives me confidence to share my experiences with you." 
1Corinthians15:32 Tell me, why did I fight “wild beasts” in Ephesus if my hope is in this life only? What was the point of that? If the dead do not rise, then Let’s party all night, for tomorrow we die!" 
1Corinthians15:33 So stop fooling yourselves! Evil companions will corrupt good morals and character. 
1Corinthians15:34 Come back to your right senses and awaken to what is right. Repent from your sinful ways. For some have no knowledge of God’s wonderful love. You should be ashamed that you make me write this way to you! 
1Corinthians15:35 I can almost hear someone saying, “How can the dead come back to life? And what kind of body will they have when they are resurrected?”" 
1Corinthians15:36 Foolish man! Don’t you know that what you sow in the ground doesn’t germinate unless it dies? 
1Corinthians15:37 And what you sow is not the body that will come into being, but the bare seed. And it’s hard to tell whether it’s wheat or some other seed." 
1Corinthians15:38 But when it dies, God gives it a new form, a body to fulfill his purpose, and he sees to it that each seed gets a new body of its own and becomes the plant he designed it to be." 
1Corinthians15:39 All flesh is not identical. Animals have one flesh and human beings another. Birds have their distinct flesh and fish another. 
1Corinthians15:40 In the same way there are earthly bodies and heavenly bodies. There is a splendor of the celestial body and a different one for the earthly. 
1Corinthians15:41 There is the radiance of the sun and differing radiance for the moon and for the stars. Even the stars differ in their shining. 
1Corinthians15:42 And that’s how it will be with the resurrection of the dead. 
1Corinthians15:43 The body is “sown” in decay, but will be raised in immortality. It is “sown” in humiliation, but will be raised in glorification." 
1Corinthians15:44 It is “sown” in weakness but will be raised in power. If there is a physical body, there is also a spiritual body." 
1Corinthians15:45 For it is written: The first man, Adam, became a living soul. The last Adam became the life-giving Spirit." 
1Corinthians15:46 However, the spiritual didn’t come first. The natural precedes the spiritual." 
1Corinthians15:47 The first man was from the dust of the earth; the second Man is Yahweh, from the realm of heaven." 
1Corinthians15:48 The first one, made from dust, has a race of people just like him, who are also made from dust. The One sent from heaven has a race of heavenly people who are just like him." 
1Corinthians15:49 Once we carried the likeness of the man of dust, but now let us carry the likeness of the man of heaven." 
1Corinthians15:50 Now, I tell you this, my brothers and sisters, flesh and blood are not able to inherit God’s kingdom realm, and neither will that which is decaying be able to inherit what is incorruptible." 
1Corinthians15:51 Listen, and I will tell you a divine mystery: not all of us will die, but we will all be transformed." 
1Corinthians15:52 It will happen in an instant —in the twinkling of his eye. For when the last trumpet is sounded, the dead will come back to life. We will be indestructible and we will be transformed." 
1Corinthians15:53 For we will discard our mortal “clothes” and slip into a body that is imperishable. What is mortal now will be exchanged for immortality. 
1Corinthians15:54 And when that which is mortal puts on immortality, and what now decays is exchanged for what will never decay, then the Scripture will be fulfilled that says: Death is swallowed up by a triumphant victory!" 
1Corinthians15:55 So death, tell me, where is your victory? Tell me death, where is your sting?" 
1Corinthians15:56 It is sin that gives death its sting and the law that gives sin its power. 
1Corinthians15:57 But we thank God for giving us the victory as conquerors through our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1Corinthians15:58 So now, beloved ones, stand firm, stable, and enduring. Live your lives with an unshakable confidence. We know that we prosper and excel in every season by serving the Lord, because we are assured that our union with the Lord makes our labor productive with fruit that endures." 
1Corinthians16:1 Now, concerning the collection I want you to take for God’s holy believers in Jerusalem who are in need, I want you to follow the same instructions I gave the churches of Galatia." 
1Corinthians16:2 Every Sunday, each of you make a generous offering by taking a portion of whatever God has blessed you with and place it in safekeeping. Then I won’t have to make a special appeal when I come." 
1Corinthians16:3 When I arrive, I will send your gift to the poor in Jerusalem along with a letter of explanation, carried by those whom you approve." 
1Corinthians16:4 If it seems advisable for me to accompany them, I’ll be glad to have them travel with me." 
1Corinthians16:5 I plan to be traveling through Macedonia, and afterward I will visit you" 
1Corinthians16:6 and perhaps stay there for a while, or even spend the winter with you. Afterward you can send me on my journey, wherever I go next, with your financial support." 
1Corinthians16:7 For it’s not my desire to just see you in passing, but I would like to spend some time with you if the Lord permits." 
1Corinthians16:8 Regardless, I will remain in Ephesus until the feast of Pentecost." 
1Corinthians16:9 There’s an amazing door of opportunity standing wide open for me to minister here, even though there are many who oppose and stand against me." 
1Corinthians16:10 When Timothy arrives, make sure that he feels at home while he’s with you, for he’s advancing the Lord’s work just as I am." 
1Corinthians16:11 Don’t let anyone disparage or look down on him, but kindly help him on his way with financial support so that he may come back to me, for I am waiting for him and the brothers to return." 
1Corinthians16:12 Now, about our brother Apollos. I’ve tried hard to convince him to come visit you with the other brothers, but it’s simply not the right time for him now. But don’t worry, he’ll come when he has the opportunity." 
1Corinthians16:13 Remember to stay alert and hold firmly to all that you believe. Be mighty and full of courage. 
1Corinthians16:14 Let love and kindness be the motivation behind all that you do. 
1Corinthians16:15 Dear brothers and sisters, I have a request to make of you. Give special recognition to Stephanas and his family, for they were the first converts in Achaia, and they have fully devoted themselves to serve God’s holy people." 
1Corinthians16:16 I urge you to honor and support them, and all those like them who work so diligently for the Lord." 
1Corinthians16:17 I was delighted when Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus arrived, for they’ve made up for your absence." 
1Corinthians16:18 They have refreshed my spirit in the same way they’ve refreshed yours. Be sure to honor people like this. 
1Corinthians16:19 All the churches of western Turkey send their loving greetings to you. Aquila and Prisca greet you warmly in the Lord with those of their house church. 
1Corinthians16:20 All of your fellow believers here in Ephesus send their greetings. Greet one another with a sacred kiss. 
1Corinthians16:21 In my own handwriting, I, Paul, add my loving greeting." 
1Corinthians16:22 If anyone doesn’t sincerely love the Lord, he deserves to be doomed as an outcast. Our Lord has come!" 
1Corinthians16:23 May the grace and favor of our Lord Jesus be with you. 
1Corinthians16:24 I send my love to all who are joined in the life of Jesus, the Anointed One." 
2Corinthians1:1 From Paul to God’s called ones, his church in Corinth. I have been chosen by Jesus Christ to be his apostle according to God’s perfect plan. Our brother Timothy joins me in writing to you and all the holy believers throughout the Roman province of Achaia." 
2Corinthians1:2 May undeserved favor and endless peace be yours continually from our Father God and from our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One!" 
2Corinthians1:3 All praises belong to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. For he is the Father of tender mercy and the God of endless comfort. 
2Corinthians1:4 He always comes alongside us to comfort us in every suffering so that we can come alongside those who are in any painful trial. We can bring them this same comfort that God has poured out upon us. 
2Corinthians1:5 And just as we experience the abundance of Christ’s own sufferings, even more of God’s comfort will cascade upon us through our union with Christ." 
2Corinthians1:6 If troubles weigh us down, that just means that we will receive even more comfort to pass on to you for your deliverance! For the comfort pouring into us empowers us to bring comfort to you. And with this comfort upholding you, you can endure victoriously the same suffering that we experience." 
2Corinthians1:7 Now our hope for you is unshakable, because we know that just as you share in our sufferings you will also share in God’s comforting strength." 
2Corinthians1:8 Brothers and sisters, you need to know about the severe trials we experienced while we were in western Turkey. All of the hardships we passed through crushed us beyond our ability to endure, and we were so completely overwhelmed that we were about to give up entirely." 
2Corinthians1:9 It felt like we had a death sentence written upon our hearts, and we still feel it to this day. It has taught us to lose all faith in ourselves and to place all of our trust in the God who raises the dead." 
2Corinthians1:10 He has rescued us from terrifying encounters with death. And now we fasten our hopes on him to continue to deliver us from death yet again," 
2Corinthians1:11 as you labor together with us through prayer. Because there are so many interceding for us, our deliverance will cause even more people to give thanks to God. What a gracious gift of mercy surrounds us because of your prayers!" 
2Corinthians1:12 We rejoice in saying with complete honesty and a clear conscience that God has empowered us to conduct ourselves in a holy manner and with no hidden agenda. God’s marvelous grace enables us to minister to everyone with pure motives, not in the clever wisdom of the world. This is especially true in all of our dealings with you." 
2Corinthians1:13 We write to you with words that are clearly understood, and there is no need for you to try to read between the lines of what we write in hopes that you can completely and accurately understand our hearts." 
2Corinthians1:14 We know you have already understood us in a measure and that you will eventually come to understand us fully. Then you’ll be able to boast of us even as we will boast of you in the day of our Lord Jesus. 
2Corinthians1:15 With this confidence, I’m wanting to visit you before and after my trip to Macedonia so that you enjoy a second experience of grace. Afterward, I’m hoping you will be able to aid me on my journey to Israel." 
2Corinthians1:16  
2Corinthians1:17 When I revised my itinerary, was I vacillating? Or do I make my plans with unprincipled motives, ready to flip-flop with a “yes” and a “no” in the same breath? Of course not!" 
2Corinthians1:18 For as God is true to his word, my promise to you was not a fickle “yes” when I meant “no.”" 
2Corinthians1:19 Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and he is the one whom Timothy, Silas, and I have preached to you—and he has never been both a “yes” and a “no.” He has always been and always will be for us a resounding “YES!”" 
2Corinthians1:20 For all of God’s promises find their “yes” of fulfillment in him. And as his “yes” and our “amen” ascend to God, we bring him glory!" 
2Corinthians1:21 Now, it is God himself who has anointed us. And he is constantly strengthening both you and us in union with Christ." 
2Corinthians1:22 He knows we are his since he has also stamped his seal of love over our hearts and has given us the Holy Spirit like an engagement ring is given to a bride—a down payment of the blessings to come! 
2Corinthians1:23 Now, I call upon this faithful God as a witness against me if I’m not telling you the absolute truth. It was because I hold you in my heart that I decided not to return to Corinth, in order to spare you the humiliation of my rebuke." 
2Corinthians1:24 But I don’t want to imply that as leaders we coerce you or somehow want to rule over your faith. Instead, we are your partners who are called to increase your joy. And we know that you already stand firm because of your strong faith." 
2Corinthians2:1 So until these issues were settled, I decided against paying you another painful visit." 
2Corinthians2:2 For if I brought you pain, you would be unable to bring me joy." 
2Corinthians2:3 And this was the very point I made in my letter, for I didn’t want to come and find sadness filling the very ones who should give me cheer. But I’m confident that you will do what’s right so that my joyous delight will be yours." 
2Corinthians2:4 I wrote you previously sobbing and with a broken heart. I was filled with anguish and deep distress. I had no intention of causing you pain but to convey the overwhelming measure of my love for you. 
2Corinthians2:5 For the one who has caused me grief has not only grieved me but, to some extent, has caused you all grief as well." 
2Corinthians2:6 I believe that your united rebuke has been punishment enough for him. 
2Corinthians2:7 Instead of more punishment, what he needs most is your encouragement through your gracious display of forgiveness." 
2Corinthians2:8 I beg you to reaffirm your deep love for him. 
2Corinthians2:9 You see, I wrote previously in order to see if your hearts would pass the test and if you were willing to follow my counsel in everything." 
2Corinthians2:10 If you freely forgive anyone for anything, then I also forgive him. And if I have forgiven anything, I did so for you before the face of Christ," 
2Corinthians2:11 so that we would not be exploited by the adversary, Satan, for we know his clever schemes." 
2Corinthians2:12 When I arrived at Troas, bringing the wonderful news of Christ, the Lord opened a great door of opportunity to minister there." 
2Corinthians2:13 Still, I had no peace of mind, because I couldn’t find my dear brother Titus anywhere. So after saying goodbye to the believers, I set out for Macedonia to look for him." 
2Corinthians2:13 Still, I had no peace of mind, because I couldn’t find my dear brother Titus anywhere. So after saying goodbye to the believers, I set out for Macedonia to look for him." 
2Corinthians2:14 God always makes his grace visible in Christ, who includes us as partners of his endless triumph. Through our yielded lives he spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of God everywhere we go." 
2Corinthians2:15 We have become the unmistakable aroma of the victory of the Anointed One to God —a perfume of life to those being saved and the odor of death to those who are perishing. 
2Corinthians2:16 The unbelievers smell a deadly stench that leads to death, but believers smell the life-giving aroma that leads to abundant life. And who of us can rise to this challenge?" 
2Corinthians2:17 For unlike so many, we are not peddlers of God’s Word who water down the message. We are those sent from God with pure motives, who speak in the sight of God from our union with Christ." 
2Corinthians3:1 Are we beginning to sound like those who speak highly of themselves? Do you really need letters of recommendation to validate our ministry, like others do? Do we really need your letter of endorsement? Of course not!" 
2Corinthians3:2 For your very lives are our “letters of recommendation,” permanently engraved on our hearts, recognized and read by everybody." 
2Corinthians3:3 As a result of our ministry, you are living letters written by Christ, not with ink but by the Spirit of the living God—not carved onto stone tablets but on the tablets of tender hearts." 
2Corinthians3:4 We carry this confidence in our hearts because of our union with Christ before God. 
2Corinthians3:5 Yet we don’t see ourselves as capable enough to do anything in our own strength, for our true competence flows from God’s empowering presence." 
2Corinthians3:6 He alone makes us adequate ministers who are focused on an entirely new covenant. Our ministry is not based on the letter of the law but through the power of the Spirit. The letter of the law kills, but the Spirit pours out life." 
2Corinthians3:7 Even the ministry that was characterized by chiseled letters on stone tablets came with a dazzling measure of glory, though it produced death. The Israelites couldn’t bear to gaze on the glowing face of Moses because of the radiant splendor shining from his countenance—a glory destined to fade away." 
2Corinthians3:8 Yet how much more radiant is this new and glorious ministry of the Spirit that shines from us! 
2Corinthians3:9 For if the former ministry of condemnation was ushered in with a measure of glory, how much more does the ministry that imparts righteousness far excel in glory." 
2Corinthians3:10 What once was glorious no longer holds any glory because of the increasingly greater glory that has replaced it. 
2Corinthians3:11 The fading ministry came with a portion of glory, but now we embrace the unfading ministry of a permanent impartation of glory." 
2Corinthians3:12 So then, with this amazing hope living in us, we step out in freedom and boldness to speak the truth." 
2Corinthians3:13 We are not like Moses, who used a veil to hide the glory to keep the Israelites from staring at him as it faded away." 
2Corinthians3:14 Their minds were closed and hardened, for even to this day that same veil comes over their minds when they hear the words of the former covenant. The veil has not yet been lifted from them, for it is only eliminated when one is joined to the Messiah." 
2Corinthians3:15 So until now, whenever the Old Testament is being read, the same blinding comes over their hearts." 
2Corinthians3:16 But the moment one turns to the Lord with an open heart, the veil is lifted and they see." 
2Corinthians3:17 Now, the “Lord” I’m referring to is the Holy Spirit, and wherever he is Lord, there is freedom." 
2Corinthians3:18 We can all draw close to him with the veil removed from our faces. And with no veil we all become like mirrors who brightly reflect the glory of the Lord Jesus. We are being transfigured into his very image as we move from one brighter level of glory to another. And this glorious transfiguration comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit." 
2Corinthians4:1 Now, it’s because of God’s mercy that we have been entrusted with the privilege of this new covenant ministry. And we will not quit or faint with weariness." 
2Corinthians4:2 We reject every shameful cover-up and refuse to resort to cunning trickery or distorting the Word of God. Instead, we open up our souls to you by presenting the truth to everyone’s conscience in the sight and presence of God." 
2Corinthians4:3 Even if our gospel message is veiled, it is only veiled to those who are perishing," 
2Corinthians4:4 for their minds have been blinded by the god of this age, leaving them in unbelief. Their blindness keeps them from seeing the dayspring light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the divine image of God." 
2Corinthians4:5 We don’t preach ourselves, but rather the lordship of Jesus Christ, for we are your servants for Jesus’ sake." 
2Corinthians4:6 For God, who said, “Let brilliant light shine out of darkness,” is the one who has cascaded his light into us—the brilliant dawning light of the glorious knowledge of God as we gaze into the face of Jesus Christ." 
2Corinthians4:7 We are like common clay jars that carry this glorious treasure within, so that this immeasurable power will be seen as God’s, not ours." 
2Corinthians4:8 Though we experience every kind of pressure, we’re not crushed. At times we don’t know what to do, but quitting is not an option." 
2Corinthians4:9 We are persecuted by others, but God has not forsaken us. We may be knocked down, but not out." 
2Corinthians4:10 We continually share in the death of Jesus in our own bodies so that the resurrection life of Jesus will be revealed through our humanity. 
2Corinthians4:11 We consider living to mean that we are constantly being handed over to death for Jesus’ sake so that the life of Jesus will be revealed through our humanity. 
2Corinthians4:12 So, then, death is at work in us but it releases life in you." 
2Corinthians4:13 We have the same Spirit of faith that is described in the Scriptures when it says, “First I believed, then I spoke in faith.” So we also first believe then speak in faith." 
2Corinthians4:14 We do this because we are convinced that he who raised Jesus will raise us up with him, and together we will all be brought into his presence." 
2Corinthians4:15 Yes, all things work for your enrichment so that more of God’s marvelous grace will spread to more and more people, resulting in an even greater increase of praise to God, bringing him even more glory!" 
2Corinthians4:16 So no wonder we don’t give up. For even though our outer person gradually wears out, our inner being is renewed every single day." 
2Corinthians4:17 We view our slight, short-lived troubles in the light of eternity. We see our difficulties as the substance that produces for us an eternal, weighty glory far beyond all comparison," 
2Corinthians4:18 because we don’t focus our attention on what is seen but on what is unseen. For what is seen is temporary, but the unseen realm is eternal." 
2Corinthians5:1 We are convinced that even if these bodies we live in are folded up at death like tents, we will still have a God-built home that no human hands have built, which will last forever in the heavenly realm." 
2Corinthians5:2 We inwardly sigh as we live in these physical “ tents,” longing to put on a new body for our life in heaven," 
2Corinthians5:3 in the belief that once we put on our new “clothing” we won’t find ourselves “naked.” 
2Corinthians5:4 So, while living in this “tent,” we groan under its burden, not because we want to die but because we want these new bodies. We crave for all that is mortal to be swallowed up by eternal life." 
2Corinthians5:5 And this is no empty hope, for God himself is the one who has prepared us for this wonderful destiny. And to confirm this promise, he has given us the Holy Spirit, like an engagement ring, as a guarantee." 
2Corinthians5:6 That’s why we’re always full of courage. Even while we’re at home in the body, we’re homesick to be with the Master—" 
2Corinthians5:7 for we live by faith, not by what we see with our eyes." 
2Corinthians5:8 We live with a joyful confidence, yet at the same time we take delight in the thought of leaving our bodies behind to be at home with the Lord." 
2Corinthians5:9 So whether we live or die we make it our life’s passion to live our lives pleasing to him. 
2Corinthians5:10 For one day we will all be openly revealed before Christ on his throne so that each of us will be duly recompensed for our actions done in life, whether good or worthless." 
2Corinthians5:11 Since we are those who stand in holy awe of the Lord, we make it our passion to persuade others to turn to him. We know that our lives are transparent before the God who knows us fully, and I hope that we are also well known to your consciences." 
2Corinthians5:12 Again, we are not taking an opportunity to brag, but giving you information that will enable you to be proud of us, and to answer those who esteem outward appearances while overlooking what is in the heart." 
2Corinthians5:13 If we are out of our minds in a blissful, divine ecstasy, it is for God, but if we are in our right minds, it is for your benefit." 
2Corinthians5:14 For it is Christ’s love that fuels our passion and holds us tightly, because we are convinced that he has given his life for all of us. This means all died with him," 
2Corinthians5:15 so that those who live should no longer live self-absorbed lives but lives that are poured out for him—the one who died for us and now lives again. 
2Corinthians5:16 So, from now on, we refuse to evaluate people merely by their outward appearances. For that’s how we once viewed the Anointed One, but no longer do we see him with limited human insight." 
2Corinthians5:17 Now, if anyone is enfolded into Christ, he has become an entirely new person. All that is related to the old order has vanished. Behold, everything is fresh and new." 
2Corinthians5:18 And God has made all things new, and reconciled us to himself, and given us the ministry of reconciling others to God." 
2Corinthians5:19 In other words, it was through the Anointed One that God was shepherding the world, not even keeping records of their transgressions, and he has entrusted to us the ministry of opening the door of reconciliation to God." 
2Corinthians5:20 We are ambassadors of the Anointed One who carry the message of Christ to the world, as though God were tenderly pleading with them directly through our lips. So we tenderly plead with you on Christ’s behalf, “Turn back to God and be reconciled to him.”" 
2Corinthians5:21 For God made the only one who did not know sin to become sin for us, so that we might become the righteousness of God through our union with him." 
2Corinthians6:1 Now, since we are God’s coworkers, we beg you not to take God’s marvelous grace for granted, allowing it to have no effect on your lives." 
2Corinthians6:2 For he says, I listened to you at the time of my favor. And the day when you needed salvation, I came to your aid. So can’t you see? Now is the time to respond to his favor! Now is the day of salvation!" 
2Corinthians6:3 We will not place obstacles in anyone’s way that hinder them from coming to salvation so that our ministry will not be discredited. 
2Corinthians6:4 Yet, as God’s servants, we prove ourselves authentic in every way. For example: We have great endurance in hardships and in persecutions. We don’t lose courage in a time of stress and calamity." 
2Corinthians6:5 We’ve been beaten many times, imprisoned, and found ourselves in the midst of riots. We’ve endured many troubles, had sleepless nights, and gone hungry." 
2Corinthians6:6 We have proved ourselves by our lifestyles of purity, by our spiritual insights, by our patience, and by showing kindness, by the Spirit of holiness and by our uncritical love for you." 
2Corinthians6:7 We commend ourselves to you by our truthful teachings, by the power of God working through us, and with the mighty weapons of righteousness— a sword in one hand and a shield in the other." 
2Corinthians6:8 Amid honor or dishonor, slander or praise— even when we are treated as deceivers and imposters— we remain steadfast and true." 
2Corinthians6:9 We are unknown nobodies whom everyone knows. We are frequently at death’s door, yet here we are, still alive! We have been severely punished yet not executed." 
2Corinthians6:10 We may suffer, yet in every season we are always found rejoicing. We may be poor, yet we bestow great riches on many. We seem to have nothing, yet in reality we possess all things." 
2Corinthians6:11 My friends at Corinth, our hearts are wide open to you and we speak freely, holding nothing back from you." 
2Corinthians6:12 If there is a block in our relationship, it is not with us, for we carry you in our hearts with great love, yet you still withhold your affections from us." 
2Corinthians6:13 So I speak to you as our children. Make room in your hearts for us as we have done for you. 
2Corinthians6:14 Don’t continue to team up with unbelievers in mismatched alliances, for what partnership is there between righteousness and rebellion? Who could mingle light with darkness?" 
2Corinthians6:15 What harmony can there be between Christ and Satan? Or what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever? 
2Corinthians6:16 What friendship does God’s temple have with demons? For indeed, we are the temple of the living God, just as God has said: I will make my home in them and walk among them. I will be their God, and they will be my people." 
2Corinthians6:17 For this reason, “Come out from among them and be separate,” says the Lord. “Touch nothing that is unclean, and I will embrace you." 
2Corinthians6:18 I will be a true Father to you, and you will be my beloved sons and daughters,” says the Lord Yahweh Almighty." 
2Corinthians7:1 Beloved ones, with promises like these, and because of our deepest respect and worship of God, we must remove everything from our lives that contaminates body and spirit, and continue to complete the development of holiness within us." 
2Corinthians7:2 Again, I urge you, make room for us in your hearts, for we have wronged no one, corrupted no one, and taken advantage of no one." 
2Corinthians7:3 I’m not saying this to condemn you, for I already told you that we carry you permanently in our hearts—and you’ll stay there throughout our lives, for we will live together and die together." 
2Corinthians7:4 With an open heart let me freely say how very proud I am of you and how often I boast about you. In fact, when I think of you my heart is greatly encouraged and overwhelmed with joy, despite our many troubles." 
2Corinthians7:5 Even after we came into the province of Macedonia, we found no relief. We were restless and exhausted; troubles met us at every turn. Outwardly I faced conflicts and inwardly emotional turmoil." 
2Corinthians7:6 But God, who always knows how to encourage the depressed, encouraged us greatly by the arrival of Titus." 
2Corinthians7:6 But God, who always knows how to encourage the depressed, encouraged us greatly by the arrival of Titus." 
2Corinthians7:7 We were relieved not only to see him but because of the report he brought us of how you refreshed his heart. He told us of your affection toward me, your deep remorse, and how concerned you were for me. This truly made my heart leap for joy!" 
2Corinthians7:8 Even if my letter made you sorrowful, I don’t regret sending it (even though I felt awful for a moment when I heard how it grieved you)." 
2Corinthians7:9 Now I’m overjoyed—not because I made you sad, but because your grief led you to a deep repentance. You experienced godly sorrow, and as God intended, it brought about gain for you, not loss, so that no harm has been done by us." 
2Corinthians7:10 God designed us to feel remorse over sin in order to produce repentance that leads to victory. This leaves us with no regrets. But the sorrow of the world works death. 
2Corinthians7:11 Can’t you see the good fruit that has come, as God intended, because of your remorse over sin? Now you are eager to do what is right! Look at the indignation you experienced over what happened and how alarmed you became. What holy longing it awakened, what passion for God, and how ready you were to bring justice to the offender. Your response has proved that you are free of blame in this matter." 
2Corinthians7:12 So I wrote you not simply to correct the one who did the wrong or on the behalf of the one who was wronged, but to help you realize in God’s sight how loyal you are to us." 
2Corinthians7:13 Your response leaves us so encouraged! You’ve made us even more joyful upon hearing of how you refreshed Titus, for his mind was set at ease by all of you." 
2Corinthians7:13 Your response leaves us so encouraged! You’ve made us even more joyful upon hearing of how you refreshed Titus, for his mind was set at ease by all of you." 
2Corinthians7:14 I have not been embarrassed by you, for the things I bragged about you to Titus were not proven false. Just as everything we said to you was true, so our boasting to Titus about you has proven to be true as well." 
2Corinthians7:14 I have not been embarrassed by you, for the things I bragged about you to Titus were not proven false. Just as everything we said to you was true, so our boasting to Titus about you has proven to be true as well." 
2Corinthians7:15 His affection toward you has grown as he remembers your obedience and how warmly you welcomed him with fear and trembling. 
2Corinthians7:16 I’m beside myself with joy! I am so confident in you! 
2Corinthians8:1 Beloved ones, we must tell you about the grace God poured out upon the churches of Macedonia." 
2Corinthians8:2 For even during a season of severe difficulty, tremendous suffering, and extreme poverty, their super-abundant joy overflowed into an act of extravagant generosity." 
2Corinthians8:3 For I can verify that they spontaneously gave, not only according to their means but far beyond what they could afford." 
2Corinthians8:4 They actually begged us for the privilege of sharing in this ministry of giving to God’s holy people who are living in poverty. 
2Corinthians8:5 They exceeded our expectations by first dedicating themselves fully to the Lord and then to us, according to God’s pleasure." 
2Corinthians8:6 That is why we appealed to Titus, since he was the one who got you started and encouraged you to give, so he could help you complete this generous undertaking on your behalf." 
2Corinthians8:6 That is why we appealed to Titus, since he was the one who got you started and encouraged you to give, so he could help you complete this generous undertaking on your behalf." 
2Corinthians8:7 You do well and excel in every respect—in unstoppable faith, in powerful preaching, in revelation knowledge, in your passionate devotion, and in sharing the love we have shown to you. So make sure that you also excel in grace-filled generosity." 
2Corinthians8:8 I’m not saying this as though I were issuing an order but to stir you to greater love by mentioning the enthusiasm of the Macedonians as a challenge to you. 
2Corinthians8:9 For you have experienced the extravagant grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that although he was infinitely rich, he impoverished himself for our sake, so that by his poverty, we become rich beyond measure." 
2Corinthians8:10 So here are my thoughts concerning this matter, and it’s in your best interests. Since you made such a good start last year, both in the grace of giving and in your longing to give," 
2Corinthians8:11 you should finish what you started. You were so eager in your intentions to give, so go do it. Finish this act of worship according to your ability to give." 
2Corinthians8:12 For if the intention and desire are there, the size of the gift doesn’t matter. Your gift is fully acceptable to God according to what you have, not what you don’t have." 
2Corinthians8:13 I’m not saying this in order to ease someone else’s load by overloading you, but as a matter of fair balance." 
2Corinthians8:14 Your surplus could meet their need, and their abundance may one day meet your need. This equal sharing of abundance will mean a fair balance." 
2Corinthians8:15 As it is written: The one who gathered much didn’t have too much, and the one who gathered little didn’t have too little." 
2Corinthians8:16 We give thanks to God for putting the same devotion I have for you into the heart of Titus. 
2Corinthians8:16 We give thanks to God for putting the same devotion I have for you into the heart of Titus. 
2Corinthians8:17 Of course, he enthusiastically accepted our request to go to Corinth, but because he carries you in his heart, he’d already planned on coming." 
2Corinthians8:18 So we’re sending with him the brother who is greatly honored and respected in all the churches for his work of evangelism. 
2Corinthians8:19 Not only that, he has been appointed by the churches to be our traveling companion as we carry and dispense this generous gift that glorifies the Lord and shows how eager we are to help." 
2Corinthians8:20 We are sending a team in order to avoid any criticism over how we handle this wonderfully generous gift," 
2Corinthians8:21 for we intend to do what is right and we are totally open both to the Lord’s inspection and to man’s. 
2Corinthians8:22 So we’re sending with them another brother who is faithful and proven to be a man of integrity. He is passionate to help you now more than ever, for he believes in you." 
2Corinthians8:23 Concerning the credentials of Titus, he’s my partner and coworker in ministry for you. As for the brothers coming with him, they are apostles of the churches, which are the glory of the Anointed One." 
2Corinthians8:23 Concerning the credentials of Titus, he’s my partner and coworker in ministry for you. As for the brothers coming with him, they are apostles of the churches, which are the glory of the Anointed One." 
2Corinthians8:24 So demonstrate to them how much you love, and prove that our boasting of you is justified." 
2Corinthians9:1 Actually, there’s no need to write to you about this contribution for the holy believers in Jerusalem," 
2Corinthians9:2 for I already know that you are on board and eager to help. I keep boasting to the churches of Macedonia about your passion to give, telling them that the believers of Corinth have been preparing to give for a year. Your enthusiasm is contagious—it has stirred many of them to do likewise." 
2Corinthians9:3 Still, I thought it would be best to send these brothers to receive the offering that you’ve prepared, so that our boasting about how you were ready to give would not be found hollow." 
2Corinthians9:4 For if, after boasting of our confidence in you, some of the Macedonians were to come with me and find that you were not prepared, we would be embarrassed—to say nothing of you." 
2Corinthians9:5 That’s why I’ve requested that the brothers come before I do and make arrangements in advance for the substantial offering you pledged. Then it will be seen as a matter of generosity and not under pressure, as something you felt forced to do." 
2Corinthians9:6 Here’s my point. A stingy sower will reap a meager harvest, but the one who sows from a generous spirit will reap an abundant harvest." 
2Corinthians9:7 Let giving flow from your heart, not from a sense of religious duty. Let it spring up freely from the joy of giving—all because God loves hilarious generosity!" 
2Corinthians9:8 Yes, God is more than ready to overwhelm you with every form of grace, so that you will have more than enough of everything —every moment and in every way. He will make you overflow with abundance in every good thing you do." 
2Corinthians9:9 Just as the Scriptures say about the one who trusts in him: Because he has sown extravagantly and given to the poor, his kindness and generous deeds will never be forgotten." 
2Corinthians9:10 This generous God who supplies abundant seed for the farmer, which becomes bread for our meals, is even more extravagant toward you. First he supplies every need, plus more. Then he multiplies the seed as you sow it, so that the harvest of your generosity will grow." 
2Corinthians9:11 You will be abundantly enriched in every way as you give generously on every occasion, for when we take your gifts to those in need, it causes many to give thanks to God." 
2Corinthians9:12 The priestly ministry you are providing through your offering not only supplies what is lacking for God’s people, it inspires an outpouring of praises and thanksgiving to God himself." 
2Corinthians9:13 For as your extremely generous offering meets the approval of those in Jerusalem, it will cause them to give glory to God—all because of your loyal support and allegiance to the gospel of Christ, as well as your generous-hearted partnership with them toward those in need." 
2Corinthians9:14 Because of this extraordinary grace, which God has lavished on you, they will affectionately remember you in their prayers." 
2Corinthians9:15 Praise God for his astonishing gift, which is far too great for words!" 
2Corinthians10:1 Now, please listen, for I need to address an issue. I’m making this personal appeal to you by the gentleness and self-forgetfulness of Christ. I am the one who is “humble and timid” when face-to-face with you but “bold and outspoken” when a safe distance away." 
2Corinthians10:2 Now I plead with you that when I come, don’t force me to take a hard line with you (which I’m willing to do) by daring to confront those who mistakenly believe that we are living by the standards of the world, not by the Spirit’s wisdom and power." 
2Corinthians10:3 For although we live in the natural realm, we don’t wage a military campaign employing human weapons, using manipulation to achieve our aims. Instead, our spiritual weapons are energized with divine power to effectively dismantle the defenses behind which people hide." 
2Corinthians10:4  
2Corinthians10:5 We can demolish every deceptive fantasy that opposes God and break through every arrogant attitude that is raised up in defiance of the true knowledge of God. We capture, like prisoners of war, every thought and insist that it bow in obedience to the Anointed One." 
2Corinthians10:6 Since we are armed with such dynamic weaponry, we stand ready to punish any trace of rebellion, as soon as you choose complete obedience." 
2Corinthians10:7 You seem to always be looking at people by their outward appearances. If someone is confident that he belongs to Christ, he should remind himself of this: we belong to Christ no less than he does." 
2Corinthians10:8 I am not ashamed, even if I’ve come across as one who has overstated the authority given to us by the Lord. For it is the authority to help build you up, not tear you down." 
2Corinthians10:9 I don’t want to seem as though I’m trying to bully you with my letters. 
2Corinthians10:10 For I can imagine some of you saying, “His letters are authoritative and stern, but when he’s with us he’s not that impressive and he’s a poor speaker.”" 
2Corinthians10:11 Such a person should realize that when we arrive, there will be no difference in the actions we take and the words we write." 
2Corinthians10:12 Of course, we wouldn’t dare to put ourselves in the same class or compare ourselves with those who rate themselves so highly. They compare themselves to one another and make up their own standards to measure themselves by, and then they judge themselves by their own standards. What self-delusion!" 
2Corinthians10:13 But we are those who choose to limit our boasting to only the measure of the work to which God has appointed us—a measure that, by the way, has reached as far as you." 
2Corinthians10:14 And since you are within our assigned limits, we didn’t overstep our boundaries of authority by being the first to announce to you the wonderful news of the Anointed One." 
2Corinthians10:15 We’re not trying to take credit for the ministry done by others, going beyond the limits God set for us. Instead, our hope soars as your faith continues to grow, causing a great expansion of our ministry among you." 
2Corinthians10:16 Then we can go and preach the good news in the regions beyond you without trespassing on the ministry sphere of other laborers and what they have already done. 
2Corinthians10:17 For: The one who boasts must boast in the Lord. 
2Corinthians10:18 So let’s be clear. To have the Lord’s approval and commendation is of greater value than bragging about oneself. 
2Corinthians11:1 Now, please bear with some of my “craziness” for a moment. Yes, please be patient with me." 
2Corinthians11:2 You need to know that God’s passion is burning inside me for you, because, like a loving father, I have pledged your hand in marriage to Christ, your true bridegroom. I’ve also promised that I would present his fiancée to him as a pure virgin bride." 
2Corinthians11:3 But now I’m afraid that just as Eve was deceived by the serpent’s clever lies, your thoughts may be corrupted and you may lose your single-hearted devotion and pure love for Christ." 
2Corinthians11:4 For you seem to gladly tolerate anyone who comes to you preaching a pseudo-Jesus, not the Jesus we have preached. You have accepted a spirit and gospel that is false, rather than the Spirit and gospel you once embraced. How tolerant you have become of these imposters!" 
2Corinthians11:5 Now, I believe that I am not inferior in any way to these special “super-apostles” you are attracted to." 
2Corinthians11:6 For although I may not be a polished or eloquent speaker, I’m certainly not an amateur in revelation knowledge. Indeed, we have demonstrated this to you time and again." 
2Corinthians11:7 Have I committed a sin by degrading myself to dignify you? Was I wrong to preach the gospel of God to you free of charge? 
2Corinthians11:8 I received ample financial support from other churches just so that I could freely serve you. 
2Corinthians11:9 Remember, when I was with you I didn’t bother anyone when I needed money, for my needs were always supplied by my Macedonian friends. So I was careful, and will continue to be careful, that I never become a burden to you in any way." 
2Corinthians11:10 As the reality of Christ lives within me, my glad boast of offering the gospel free of charge will not be silenced throughout the region of Achaia." 
2Corinthians11:11 Why? Is it because I have no love for you? God knows how much I love you! 
2Corinthians11:12 But in order to eliminate the opportunity for those “super-apostles” to boast that their ministry is on the same level as ours I will continue this practice. 
2Corinthians11:13 For they are not true apostles but deceitful ministers who masquerade as “special apostles” of the Anointed One. 
2Corinthians11:14 That doesn’t surprise us, for even Satan transforms himself to appear as an angel of light!" 
2Corinthians11:15 So it’s no wonder his servants also go about pretending to be ministers of righteousness. But in the end they will be exposed and get exactly what they deserve. 
2Corinthians11:16 So I repeat. Let no one think that I’m a fool. But if you do, at least show me the patience you would show a fool, so that I too may boast a little." 
2Corinthians11:17 Of course, what I’m about to tell you is not with the Lord’s authority, but as a “fool.”" 
2Corinthians11:18 For since many love to boast about their worldly achievements, allow me the opportunity to join them." 
2Corinthians11:19 And since you are so smart and so wise to gladly put up with the foolishness of others, now put up with mine." 
2Corinthians11:20 You actually allow these imposters to put you into bondage, take complete advantage of you, and rob you blind! How easily you endure those who, in their arrogance, destroy your dignity or even slap you in the face." 
2Corinthians11:21 I must admit, to our shame that we were too “weak” to relate to you the way they do. But now let me dare to boast like a “fool.”" 
2Corinthians11:22 Are these “super-apostles” of yours Hebrews? I am too. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? Me too! 
2Corinthians11:22 Are these “super-apostles” of yours Hebrews? I am too. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? Me too! 
2Corinthians11:23 Are they servants of the Anointed One? I’m beside myself when I speak this way, but I am much more of a servant than they. I have worked much harder for God, taken more beatings, and been dragged to more prisons than they. I’ve been flogged excessively, multiple times, even to the point of death." 
2Corinthians11:24 Five times I’ve received thirty-nine lashes from the Jewish leaders. 
2Corinthians11:25 Three times I experienced being beaten with rods. Once they stoned me. Three times I’ve been shipwrecked; for an entire night and a day I was adrift in the open sea. 
2Corinthians11:26 In my difficult travels I’ve faced many dangerous situations: perilous rivers, robbers, foreigners, and even my own people. I’ve survived deadly peril in the city, in the wilderness, with storms at sea, and with spies posing as believers." 
2Corinthians11:27 I’ve toiled to the point of exhaustion and gone through many sleepless nights. I’ve frequently been deprived of food and water, left hungry and shivering out in the cold, lacking proper clothing." 
2Corinthians11:28 And besides these painful circumstances, I have the daily pressure of my responsibility for all the churches, with a deep concern weighing heavily on my heart for their welfare." 
2Corinthians11:29 I am not aloof, for who is desperate and weak and I do not feel their weakness? Who is led astray into sin and I do not burn with zeal to restore him?" 
2Corinthians11:30 If boasting is necessary, I will boast about examples of my weakness." 
2Corinthians11:31 The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, who is eternally praised, knows that I am speaking the truth." 
2Corinthians11:32 Once, when I was in Damascus, the governor under King Aretas had his troops searching for me to have me arrested," 
2Corinthians11:33 but I was stuffed in a basket and lowered down through a window and managed to escape. 
2Corinthians12:1 Although it may not accomplish a thing, I need to move on and boast about supernatural visions and revelations of the Lord." 
2Corinthians12:2 Someone I’m acquainted with, who is in union with Christ, was swept away fourteen years ago in an ecstatic experience. He was taken into the third heaven, but I’m not sure if he was in his body or out of his body—only God knows." 
2Corinthians12:3 And I know that this man (again, I’m not sure if he was still in his body or taken out of his body—God knows)" 
2Corinthians12:4 was caught up in an ecstatic experience and brought into paradise, where he overheard many wondrous and inexpressible secrets that were so sacred that no mortal is permitted to repeat them." 
2Corinthians12:5 I’m ready to boast of such an experience, but for my own good I refuse to boast unless it concerns my weaknesses." 
2Corinthians12:6 However, if I were to boast, it wouldn’t be ridiculous at all, for I would be speaking the truth. Yet I will refrain, lest others think higher of me than what I demonstrate with my life and teaching." 
2Corinthians12:7 The extraordinary level of the revelations I’ve received is no reason for anyone to exalt me. For this is why a thorn in my flesh was given to me, the Adversary’s messenger sent to harass me, keeping me from becoming arrogant." 
2Corinthians12:8 Three times I pleaded with the Lord to relieve me of this. 
2Corinthians12:9 But he answered me, “My grace is always more than enough for you, and my power finds its full expression through your weakness.” So I will celebrate my weaknesses, for when I’m weak I sense more deeply the mighty power of Christ living in me." 
2Corinthians12:10 So I’m not defeated by my weakness, but delighted! For when I feel my weakness and endure mistreatment—when I’m surrounded with troubles on every side and face persecution because of my love for Christ—I am made yet stronger. For my weakness becomes a portal to God’s power." 
2Corinthians12:11 I have become foolish to boast like this, but you have forced me to do it, when you should have boasted in me instead. For there is nothing I lack compared to these “super-apostles” of yours, even though I am nothing." 
2Corinthians12:12 The things that distinguish a true apostle were performed among you with great perseverance—supernatural signs, startling wonders, and awesome miracles." 
2Corinthians12:13 Furthermore, how were you treated worse than the other churches, except that I didn’t burden you financially—forgive me for depriving you!" 
2Corinthians12:14 And now here I am, ready to come to you for the third time, and I still refuse to be a burden to you. For what I really want is your hearts, not your money. After all, children should not have to accumulate resources for their parents, but parents do this for their children." 
2Corinthians12:15 And as a spiritual father to you, I will gladly spend all that I have and all that I am for you! If I love you more, will you respond by loving me less?" 
2Corinthians12:16 Be that as it may, I haven’t been a burden to you at all, yet you say of me, “He’s a scoundrel and a trickster!”" 
2Corinthians12:17 But let me ask you this. Did I somehow cheat or trick you through any of the men I sent your way? 
2Corinthians12:18 I was the one who insisted that Titus and our brother come and help you. Did Titus take advantage of you? Didn’t we all come to you in the same spirit, following in the ways of integrity?" 
2Corinthians12:18 I was the one who insisted that Titus and our brother come and help you. Did Titus take advantage of you? Didn’t we all come to you in the same spirit, following in the ways of integrity?" 
2Corinthians12:19 I hope that you don’t assume that all this time we have simply been justifying ourselves in your eyes? Beloved ones, we have been speaking to you in the sight of God as those joined to Christ, and everything we do is meant to build you up and make you stronger in your faith." 
2Corinthians12:20 Now I’m afraid that when I come to you I may find you different than I desire you to be, and you may find me different than you would like me to be. I don’t want to find you in disunity, with jealousy and angry outbursts, with selfish ambition, slander, gossip, arrogance, and turmoil." 
2Corinthians12:21 I’m actually afraid that on my next visit my God will humble me in front of you as I shed tears over those who keep sinning without repenting of their impurity, sexual immorality, and perversion." 
2Corinthians13:1 This will be my third trip to you. And I will make sure that by the testimony of two or three witnesses every matter will be confirmed. 
2Corinthians13:2 Since you are demanding proof that the Anointed One is speaking through me, I will give you proof by exercising discipline among you. For just as I told you the last time I was there—and now, though absent, I say it again—that when I come I will not go easy on those whom I’ve already warned and those who continue to persist in their sin. Christ is not weak or feeble in his dealings with you but mighty and powerful within you." 
2Corinthians13:3  
2Corinthians13:4 For although he was crucified as a “weakling,” now he lives robed with God’s power. And we also are “weak ones” in our co-crucifixion with him, but now we live in God’s triumphant power together with him, which is demonstrated on your behalf." 
2Corinthians13:5 Now your souls will be strengthened and healed if you hold steadfast to your faith. Haven’t you already experienced Jesus Christ himself living in you? If not, you are deficient." 
2Corinthians13:6 I hope you understand that we cannot be devalued. 
2Corinthians13:7 But we pray to God that you will be flawless, not to validate our ministry among you but so that you may continue on the path of righteousness even if we are denigrated." 
2Corinthians13:8 For in reality, the power we have is used in support of the truth, not against it." 
2Corinthians13:9 And we claim before God that you will be fully equipped and mature, for it brings us great joy when you are strong, even if we seem weak and denigrated." 
2Corinthians13:10 I’m writing my honest feelings to you from afar so that when I arrive I won’t have to correct you by using the authority the Lord has given me, for I want to build you up and not tear you down." 
2Corinthians13:11 Finally, beloved friends, be cheerful! Repair whatever is broken among you, as your hearts are being knit together in perfect unity. Live continually in peace, and God, the source of love and peace, will mingle with you." 
2Corinthians13:12 Greet and embrace one another with the sacred kiss. 
2Corinthians13:13 All of God’s holy people send their greetings. 
2Corinthians13:14 Now, may the grace and joyous favor of the Lord Jesus Christ, the unambiguous love of God, and the precious communion that we share in the Holy Spirit be yours continually. Amen!" 
Galatians1:1 From Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. My apostleship was not granted to me by men, for I was appointed by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead." 
Galatians1:2 All the brothers and sisters join with me as I write this letter to the churches throughout the region of central Turkey. 
Galatians1:3 May God’s undeserved kindness and total well-being that flow from our Father God and from the Lord Jesus be yours. 
Galatians1:4 He’s the Anointed One who offered himself as the sacrifice for our sins! He has rescued us from this evil world system and set us free, just as our Father God desired." 
Galatians1:5 May all the glory be to God alone, throughout time and eternity. Amen!" 
Galatians1:6 I am shocked over how quickly you have strayed away from the One who called you in the grace of Christ. I’m astounded that you now embrace a distorted gospel! 
Galatians1:7 That is a fake “gospel” that is simply not true. There is only one gospel—the good news of Christ! Yet you have allowed those who mingle law with grace to confuse you. 
Galatians1:8 But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel different than the one we preached to you, let them be under God’s curse!" 
Galatians1:9 Let me make it clear: Anyone, no matter who they are, that brings you a different gospel than the gospel that you have received, let them be condemned and cursed!" 
Galatians1:10 I’m obviously not trying to flatter you or water down my message to be popular with men, but my supreme passion is to please God. For if all I attempt to do is please people, I would fail to be a true servant of Christ." 
Galatians1:11 Beloved ones, let me repeat emphatically that the gospel entrusted to me was not given to me by any man." 
Galatians1:12 No one taught me this revelation, for it was given to me directly by the unveiling of Jesus Christ." 
Galatians1:13 By now you have heard stories of how severely I harassed and persecuted Christians and how systematically I endeavored to destroy God’s church, all because of my radical devotion to the Jewish religion." 
Galatians1:14 My zeal and passion for the doctrines of Judaism distinguished me among my people, for I was far more advanced in my religious instruction than others my age." 
Galatians1:15 But then God called me by his grace, and chose me from my birth to be his." 
Galatians1:16 He was pleased to unveil his Son in me so that I would proclaim him to the peoples of the world. After I had this encounter, I kept it a secret for some time, sharing it with no one." 
Galatians1:17 And I had no desire to run to Jerusalem and try to impress those who had become apostles before me. Instead, I withdrew into the Arabian Desert. Then I returned to Damascus, where I had first encountered Jesus." 
Galatians1:18 I remained there for three years until I eventually went up to Jerusalem, met the apostle Peter, and stayed with him for a couple of weeks." 
Galatians1:19 The only other apostle I met during that time was Jacob, the Lord’s brother." 
Galatians1:20 Everything I’m describing to you I confess before God to be the absolute truth. 
Galatians1:21 After my stay in Jerusalem, I went to Syria and southeast Turkey," 
Galatians1:22 but I remained unknown to the churches in Judea. 
Galatians1:22 but I remained unknown to the churches in Judea. 
Galatians1:23 The only thing they heard about me was this: “Our former enemy, who once brutally persecuted us, is now preaching the good news of the faith that he tried to destroy!”" 
Galatians1:24 Because of the transformation that took place in my life, they praised God even more!" 
Galatians2:1 Fourteen years later, I returned to Jerusalem, this time with Barnabas and Titus, my coworkers." 
Galatians2:1 Fourteen years later, I returned to Jerusalem, this time with Barnabas and Titus, my coworkers." 
Galatians2:2 God gave me a clear revelation to go and confer with the other apostles concerning the message of grace I was preaching to the gentiles. I spoke privately with those who were viewed as senior leaders of the church, wanting to make certain that my labor and ministry for the Messiah had not been based on a false understanding of the gospel." 
Galatians2:3 Even though Titus was a Syrian, they accepted him as a brother without demanding that he first be circumcised." 
Galatians2:3 Even though Titus was a Syrian, they accepted him as a brother without demanding that he first be circumcised." 
Galatians2:4 I met with them privately because false “brothers” had been secretly smuggled into church meetings. They were sent to spy on the wonderful freedom that we have in Jesus Christ. Their agenda was to bring us back into the bondage of religion. 
Galatians2:5 But you must know that we did not submit to their religious shackles, not even for a moment, so that we might keep the truth of the gospel of grace unadulterated for you." 
Galatians2:6 Even those most influential among the brothers were not able to add anything to my message. Who they are before men makes no difference to me, for God is not impressed by their reputations." 
Galatians2:7 So they recognized that I was entrusted with taking the gospel to the gentiles just as Peter was entrusted with taking it to the Jews. 
Galatians2:8 For the same God who empowered Peter’s apostolic ministry to the Jews also flowed through me as an apostle to those who are gentiles. 
Galatians2:9 When they all recognized this grace operating in my ministry, those who were recognized as influential pillars in the church—Jacob, Peter, and John—extended to Barnabas and me the warmth of Christian fellowship and honored my calling to minister to the gentiles, even as they were to go to the Jews." 
Galatians2:9 When they all recognized this grace operating in my ministry, those who were recognized as influential pillars in the church—Jacob, Peter, and John—extended to Barnabas and me the warmth of Christian fellowship and honored my calling to minister to the gentiles, even as they were to go to the Jews." 
Galatians2:10 They simply requested one thing of me: that I would remember the poor and needy, which was the burden I was already carrying in my heart." 
Galatians2:11 When Peter visited Antioch, he caused the believers to stumble over his behavior, so I confronted him to his face." 
Galatians2:12 He enjoyed eating with the gentile believers who didn’t keep the Jewish customs—up until the time Jacob’s Jewish friends arrived from Jerusalem. When he saw them, he withdrew from his gentile friends—fearing how it would look to them if he ate with gentile believers." 
Galatians2:13 And so, because of Peter’s hypocrisy, many other Jewish believers followed suit, refusing to eat with gentile believers. Even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocritical behavior!" 
Galatians2:14 So when I realized they were acting inconsistently with the revelation of the gospel, I confronted Peter in front of everyone: “You were born a Jew, but you’ve chosen to disregard Jewish regulations and live like a gentile. Why then do you force gentiles to conform to these same rules?”" 
Galatians2:15 Although we’re Jews by birth and not gentile “sinners,”" 
Galatians2:16 we know that no one receives God’s perfect righteousness as a reward for keeping the law, but only by the faith of Jesus, the Messiah! His faithfulness has saved us, and we have received God’s perfect righteousness. Now we know that God accepts no one by the keeping of religious laws!" 
Galatians2:17 If we are those who desire to be righteous through our union with the Anointed One, does that mean our Messiah condones sin even though we acknowledge that we are sinners? How absurd!" 
Galatians2:18 For if I start over and reconstruct the old religious system that I had torn down with the message of grace, I would appear to be a lawbreaker." 
Galatians2:19 For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God." 
Galatians2:20 My old identity has been co-crucified with Christ and no longer lives. And now the essence of this new life is no longer mine, for the Anointed One lives his life through me— we live in union as one! My new life is empowered by the faith of the Son of God who loves me so much that he gave himself for me, dispensing his life into mine!" 
Galatians2:21 So that is why I don’t view God’s grace as something peripheral. For if keeping the law could release God’s righteousness to us, then Christ would have died for nothing." 
Galatians3:1 What has happened to you foolish Galatians? Who has put you under an evil spell? Did God not open your eyes to see the meaning of Jesus’ crucifixion? Was he not revealed to you as the crucified one? 
Galatians3:2 So answer me this: Did the Holy Spirit come to you as a reward for keeping Jewish laws? No, you received him as a gift because you believed in the Messiah." 
Galatians3:3 Your new life began when the Holy Spirit gave you a new birth. Why then would you so foolishly turn from living in the Spirit by trying to finish by your own works? 
Galatians3:4 Have you endured so many trials and persecutions for nothing? 
Galatians3:5 Let me ask you again: What does the lavish supply of the Holy Spirit in your life and the miracles of God’s tremendous power have to do with you keeping religious laws? The Holy Spirit is poured out upon us through the revelation and power of faith! 
Galatians3:6 Abraham, our father of faith, believed God, and the substance of his faith released God’s righteousness to him." 
Galatians3:7 So the true children of Abraham have the same faith as their father! 
Galatians3:8 And the Scripture prophesied that on the basis of faith God would declare gentiles to be righteous. God announced the good news ahead of time to Abraham: “Through your example of faith, all the nations will be blessed!”" 
Galatians3:9 And so the blessing of Abraham’s faith is now our blessing too! 
Galatians3:10 But if you rely on works of keeping the law for salvation, you live under the law’s curse. For it is clearly written: “Utterly cursed is everyone who fails to practice every detail and requirement that is written in this law!”" 
Galatians3:11 It is obvious that no one achieves the righteousness of God by attempting to keep the law, for it is written: “The one who is in a right relationship with God will live by faith!”" 
Galatians3:12 But keeping the law does not require faith, but self-effort. For the law teaches, “If you practice the principles of law, you must follow all of them.”" 
Galatians3:13 Yet, Christ paid the full price to set us free from the curse of the law. He absorbed the curse completely as he became a curse in our place. For it is written: “Everyone who is hung upon a tree is cursed.”" 
Galatians3:14 Jesus Christ dissolved the curse from our lives, so that in him all the blessings of Abraham can be poured out upon gentiles. And now through faith we receive the promised Holy Spirit who lives in us." 
Galatians3:15 Beloved friends, let me use an illustration that we can all understand. Technically, when a contract is signed, it can’t be changed after it has been put into effect; it’s too late to alter the agreement." 
Galatians3:16 Remember the royal proclamation God spoke over Abraham and to Abraham’s child? God said that his promises were made to pass on to Abraham’s “Child,” not children. And who is this “Child?” It’s the Son of promise, Christ himself!" 
Galatians3:17 This means that the covenant between God and Abraham was fulfilled in Messiah and cannot be altered. Yet the written law was not even given to Moses until 430 years after God had “signed” his contract with Abraham! The law, then, doesn’t supersede the promise since the royal proclamation was given before the law. If that were the case, it would have nullified what God said to Abraham. We receive all the promises because of the Promised One—not because we keep the law!" 
Galatians3:18  
Galatians3:19 Why then was the law given at all? It was given alongside the promise to show people their sins. But the law was designed to last only until the coming of the “Seed,” the child who was promised. When God gave the law, he gave it first to angels; they gave it to Moses, his mediator, who then gave it to the people." 
Galatians3:20 Now, a mediator does not represent just one party alone, but God fulfilled it all by himself!" 
Galatians3:21 Since that’s true, should we consider the written law to be contrary to the promise of new life? How absurd! Truly, if there was a law that we could keep which would give us new life, then our salvation would have come by law-keeping." 
Galatians3:22 But the Scriptures make it clear that the whole world is imprisoned by sin! This was so the promise would be given through faith to people who believe in Jesus Christ. 
Galatians3:23 So until the revelation of faith for salvation was released, the law was a jailer, holding us as prisoners under lock and key until the “faith,” which was destined to be revealed, would set us free." 
Galatians3:24 The law was our guardian until Christ came so that we would be saved by faith. 
Galatians3:25 But now that faith has come we are no longer under the guardian of the law. 
Galatians3:26 You have all become true children of God by faith in Jesus Christ! 
Galatians3:27 Faith immersed you into Christ, and now you are covered and clothed with his life." 
Galatians3:28 And we no longer see each other in our former state —Jew or non-Jew, rich or poor, male or female—because we’re all one through our union with Jesus Christ." 
Galatians3:29 And if you belong to Christ, then you are now Abraham’s “child” and a true heir of all his blessings because of the promise God made to Abraham!" 
Galatians4:1 Let me illustrate: As long as an heir is a minor, he’s not really much different than a servant, although he’s the master over all of them." 
Galatians4:2 For until the time appointed by the father, the child is under the domestic supervision of the guardians of the estate." 
Galatians4:3 So it is with us. When we were juveniles we were enslaved under the hostile spirits of the world. 
Galatians4:4 But when the time of fulfillment had come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law." 
Galatians4:5 Yet all of this was so that he would redeem and set free those held hostage to the law so that we would receive our freedom and a full legal adoption as his children. 
Galatians4:6 And so that we would know that we are his true children, God released the Spirit of Sonship into our hearts—moving us to cry out intimately, “My Father! My true Father!”" 
Galatians4:7 Now we’re no longer living like slaves under the law, but we enjoy being God’s very own sons and daughters! And because we’re his, we can access everything our Father has —for we are heirs because of what God has done!" 
Galatians4:8 Before we knew God as our Father, we were unwitting servants to the powers that be, which are nothing compared to God." 
Galatians4:9 But now that we truly know him and are intimately known by him, why would we for a moment consider turning back to those weak and feeble principles of religion, as though we were still subject to them?" 
Galatians4:10 Why would we want to scrupulously observe rituals like special days, celebrations of the new moon, annual festivals, and sacred years?" 
Galatians4:11 I’m so alarmed about you that I’m beginning to wonder if my labor in ministry among you was a waste of time! 
Galatians4:12 Beloved ones, I plead with you, brothers and sisters, become like me, for I became like you. You did me no wrong." 
Galatians4:13 You are well aware that the reason I stayed among you to preach the good news was because of the poor state of my health. 
Galatians4:14 And yet you were so kind to me and did not despise me in my weakness, even though my physical condition put you through an ordeal while I was with you. Actually, you received me and cared for me as though I were an angel from God, as you would have cared for Jesus Christ himself!" 
Galatians4:15 Some of you were even willing, if it were possible, to pluck out your own eyes to replace mine! Where is that kindhearted and free spirit now?" 
Galatians4:16 Have I really become your enemy because I tell you the truth? 
Galatians4:17 Can’t you see what these false teachers are doing? They want to win you over so you will side with them. They want you divided from me so you will follow only them. Would you call that integrity? 
Galatians4:18 Isn’t it better to seek excellence and integrity always, and not just only when I’m with you?" 
Galatians4:19 You are my dear children, but I agonize in spiritual “labor pains” once again, until the Anointed One will be fully formed in your hearts!" 
Galatians4:20 How I wish I could be there in person and change my tone toward you, for I am truly dumbfounded over what you are doing!" 
Galatians4:21 Tell me, do you want to go back to living strictly by the law? Haven’t you ever listened to what the law really says? Have you forgotten that Abraham had two sons; one by the slave girl, and the other by the freewoman?" 
Galatians4:22  
Galatians4:23 Ishmael, the son of the slave girl, was born of the natural realm. But Isaac, the son of the freewoman, was born supernaturally by the Spirit —a child of the promise of God!" 
Galatians4:24 These two women and their sons express an allegory and become symbols of two covenants. The first covenant was born on Mount Sinai, birthing children into slavery—children born to Hagar." 
Galatians4:25 For “Hagar” represents the law given at Mount Sinai in Arabia. The “Hagar” metaphor corresponds to the earthly Jerusalem of today who are currently in bondage. 
Galatians4:26 In contrast, there is a heavenly Jerusalem above us, which is our true “mother.” She is the freewoman, birthing children into freedom!" 
Galatians4:27 For it is written: “Burst forth with gladness, rejoice, O barren woman with no children, break through with the shouts of joy and jubilee, for you are about to give birth! The one who was once considered desolate and barren now has more children than the one who has a husband!”" 
Galatians4:28 Dear friends, just like Isaac, we’re now the true children who inherit the kingdom promises." 
Galatians4:29 And just as the son of the natural world at that time harassed the son born of the power of the Holy Spirit, so it is today." 
Galatians4:30 And what does the Scripture tell us to do? “Expel the slave mother with her son! The son of the slave woman will not be a true heir— for the true heir of the promises is the son of the freewoman.” 
Galatians4:31 It’s now so obvious! We’re not the children of the slave woman; we’re the supernatural sons of the freewoman— sons of grace! 
Galatians5:1 At last we have freedom, for Christ has set us free! We must always cherish this truth and firmly refuse to go back into the bondage of our past." 
Galatians5:2 I, Paul, tell you: If you think there is benefit in circumcision and Jewish regulations, then you’re acting as though Christ is not enough." 
Galatians5:3 I say it again emphatically: If you let yourselves be circumcised you are obliged to fulfill every single one of the commandments and regulations of the law! 
Galatians5:4 If you want to be made right with God by fulfilling the obligations of the law, you have cut off more than your flesh —you have cut yourselves off from Christ and have fallen away from the revelation of grace!" 
Galatians5:5 But we have the true hope that comes from being made right with God, and by the Spirit we wait eagerly for this hope." 
Galatians5:6 When you’re joined to the Anointed One, circumcision and religious obligations can benefit you nothing. All that matters now is living in the faith that works and expresses itself through love." 
Galatians5:7 Before you were led astray, you were so faithful. Who has deceived you so that you have turned from what is right?" 
Galatians5:8 The One who enfolded you into his grace is not behind this false teaching that you’ve embraced. 
Galatians5:9 Don’t you know that when you allow even a little lie into your heart, it can permeate your entire belief system?" 
Galatians5:10 Deep in my heart I have confidence that the Lord, who lives in you, will bring you back around to the truth. And I’m convinced that those who trouble you, whoever they think they are, will bear the penalty!" 
Galatians5:11 Dear friends, why do you think the religious system persecutes me? Is it because I preach the message of being circumcised and keeping all the laws of Judaism? Not at all! Is there no longer any offense over the cross?" 
Galatians5:12 To tell you the truth, I am so disgusted with all your agitators. I wish they would go even further and cut off their legalistic influence from your lives!" 
Galatians5:13 Beloved ones, God has called us to live a life of freedom. But don’t view this wonderful freedom as an excuse to set up a base of operations in the natural realm. Constantly love each other and be committed to serve one another." 
Galatians5:14 For all the law can be summarized in one grand statement: “Demonstrate love to your neighbor, even as you care for and love yourself.”" 
Galatians5:15 But if you continue to criticize and come against each other over minor issues, you’re acting like wild beasts trying to destroy one another!" 
Galatians5:16 Let me emphasize this: As you yield to the dynamic life and power of the Holy Spirit, you will abandon the cravings of your self-life." 
Galatians5:17 When your self-life craves the things that offend the Holy Spirit you hinder him from living free within you! And the Holy Spirit’s intense cravings hinder your self-life from dominating you! So then, the two incompatible and conflicting forces within you are your self-life of the flesh and the new creation life of the Spirit." 
Galatians5:18 But when you yield to the life of the Spirit, you will no longer be living under the law, but soaring above it!" 
Galatians5:19 The behavior of the self-life is obvious: Sexual immorality, lustful thoughts, pornography," 
Galatians5:20 chasing after things instead of God, manipulating others, hatred of those who get in your way, senseless arguments, resentment when others are favored, temper tantrums, angry quarrels, only thinking of yourself, being in love with your own opinions," 
Galatians5:21 being envious of the blessings of others, murder, uncontrolled addictions, wild parties, and all other similar behavior. Haven’t I already warned you that those who use their “freedom” for these things will not inherit the kingdom realm of God!" 
Galatians5:22 But the fruit produced by the Holy Spirit within you is divine love in all its varied expressions: joy that overflows, peace that subdues, patience that endures, kindness in action, a life full of virtue, faith that prevails, gentleness of heart, and strength of spirit. Never set the law above these qualities, for they are meant to be limitless." 
Galatians5:23  
Galatians5:24 Keep in mind that we who belong to Jesus Christ have already experienced crucifixion. For everything connected with our self-life was put to death on the cross and crucified with Messiah. 
Galatians5:25 If the Spirit is the source of our life, we must also allow the Spirit to direct every aspect of our lives." 
Galatians5:26 So may we never be arrogant, or look down on another, for each of us is an original. We must forsake all jealousy that diminishes the value of others." 
Galatians6:1 My beloved friends, if you see a believer who is overtaken with a fault, the one who is in the Spirit should seek to restore him in the Spirit of gentleness. But keep watch over your own heart so that you won’t be tempted to exalt yourself over him." 
Galatians6:2 Love empowers us to fulfill the law of the Anointed One as we carry each other’s troubles. 
Galatians6:3 If you think you are somebody too important to stoop down to help another (when really you are not), you are living in deception." 
Galatians6:4 Let everyone be devoted to fulfill the work God has given them to do with excellence, and their joy will be in doing what’s right and being themselves, and not in being affirmed by others." 
Galatians6:5 Every believer is ultimately responsible for his or her own conscience. 
Galatians6:6 And those who are taught the Word must share all good things with their teacher. 
Galatians6:7 God will never be mocked! For what you plant will always be the very thing you harvest. 
Galatians6:8 The harvest you reap reveals the seed that you planted. If you plant the corrupt seeds of self-life into this natural realm, you can expect a harvest of corruption. If you plant the good seeds of Spirit-life you will reap beautiful fruits that grow from the everlasting life of the Spirit." 
Galatians6:9 And don’t allow yourselves to be weary in planting good seeds, for the season of reaping the wonderful harvest you’ve planted is coming!" 
Galatians6:10 Take advantage of every opportunity to be a blessing to others, especially to our brothers and sisters in the family of faith!" 
Galatians6:11 I’ve written this letter to you with my own handwriting—see how large I have to make the letters? 
Galatians6:12 All those who insist that you be circumcised are recruiting you so they can boast in their own achievement. They seek to avoid the persecution that comes with preaching the liberating message of the cross of Messiah! 
Galatians6:13 Not even those who are circumcised keep every detail of the written law. Yet they push you to be circumcised so that they can boast that you have become like them. 
Galatians6:14 May my only boast be found in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. In him I have been crucified to this natural realm; and the natural realm is dead to me and no longer dominates my life. 
Galatians6:15 Whether a man is circumcised or uncircumcised is meaningless to me. What really matters is the transforming power of this new creation life. 
Galatians6:16 And all those who live in agreement with this standard will have true peace and God’s delight, for they are the Israel of God." 
Galatians6:17 From now on, let no one cause me to suffer further, for I am carrying the very scars of our Lord Jesus in my body." 
Galatians6:18 Finally my beloved ones—may the wonderful grace of our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, be flowing in your spirit. So shall it be! In Messiah’s love, Paul" 
Ephesians1:1 Dear friends, My name is Paul, and I was chosen by God to be an apostle of Jesus, the Messiah." 
Ephesians1:2 I’m writing this letter to all the devoted believers who have been made holy by being one with Jesus, the Anointed One. May God himself, the heavenly Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, release grace over you and impart total well-being into your lives." 
Ephesians1:3 Every spiritual blessing in the heavenly realm has already been lavished upon us as a love gift from our wonderful heavenly Father, the Father of our Lord Jesus—all because he sees us wrapped into Christ. This is why we celebrate him with all our hearts!" 
Ephesians1:4 And in love he chose us before he laid the foundation of the universe! Because of his great love, he ordained us, so that we would be seen as holy in his eyes with an unstained innocence." 
Ephesians1:5 For it was always in his perfect plan to adopt us as his delightful children, through our union with Jesus, the Anointed One, so that his tremendous love that cascades over us would glorify his grace —for the same love he has for the Beloved, Jesus, he has for us. And this unfolding plan brings him great pleasure!" 
Ephesians1:6  
Ephesians1:7 Since we are now joined to Christ, we have been given the treasures of redemption by his blood—the total cancellation of our sins—all because of the cascading riches of his grace." 
Ephesians1:8 This superabundant grace is already powerfully working in us, releasing all forms of wisdom and practical understanding." 
Ephesians1:9 And through the revelation of the Anointed One, he unveiled his secret desires to us—the hidden mystery of his long-range plan, which he was delighted to implement from the very beginning of time." 
Ephesians1:10 And because of God’s unfailing purpose, this detailed plan will reign supreme through every period of time until the fulfillment of all the ages finally reaches its climax—when God makes all things new in all of heaven and earth through Jesus Christ." 
Ephesians1:11 Through our union with Christ we too have been claimed by God as his own inheritance. Before we were even born, he gave us our destiny; that we would fulfill the plan of God who always accomplishes every purpose and plan in his heart." 
Ephesians1:12 God’s purpose was that we Jews, who were the first to long for the messianic hope, would be the first to believe in the Anointed One and bring great praise and glory to God!" 
Ephesians1:13 And because of him, when you who are not Jews heard the revelation of truth, you believed in the wonderful news of salvation. Now we have been stamped with the seal of the promised Holy Spirit." 
Ephesians1:14 He is given to us like an engagement ring, as the first installment of what’s coming! He is our hope-promise of a future inheritance which seals us until we have all of redemption’s promises and experience complete freedom—all for the supreme glory and honor of God!" 
Ephesians1:15 Because of this, since I first heard about your strong faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and your tender love toward all his devoted ones," 
Ephesians1:16 my heart is always full and overflowing with thanks to God for you as I constantly remember you in my prayers. 
Ephesians1:17 I pray that the Father of glory, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, would impart to you the riches of the Spirit of wisdom and the Spirit of revelation to know him through your deepening intimacy with him." 
Ephesians1:18 I pray that the light of God will illuminate the eyes of your imagination, flooding you with light, until you experience the full revelation of the hope of his calling —that is, the wealth of God’s glorious inheritances that he finds in us, his holy ones!" 
Ephesians1:19 I pray that you will continually experience the immeasurable greatness of God’s power made available to you through faith. Then your lives will be an advertisement of this immense power as it works through you! This is the mighty power 
Ephesians1:20 that was released when God raised Christ from the dead and exalted him to the place of highest honor and supreme authority in the heavenly realm! 
Ephesians1:21 And now he is exalted as first above every ruler, authority, government, and realm of power in existence! He is gloriously enthroned over every name that is ever praised, not only in this age, but in the age that is coming!" 
Ephesians1:22 And he alone is the leader and source of everything needed in the church. God has put everything beneath the authority of Jesus Christ and has given him the highest rank above all others. 
Ephesians1:23 And now we, his church, are his body on the earth and that which fills him who is being filled by it!" 
Ephesians2:1 And his fullness fills you, even though you were once like corpses, dead in your sins and offenses." 
Ephesians2:2 It wasn’t that long ago that you lived in the religion, customs, and values of this world, obeying the dark ruler of the earthly realm who fills the atmosphere with his authority, and works diligently in the hearts of those who are disobedient to the truth of God." 
Ephesians2:3 The corruption that was in us from birth was expressed through the deeds and desires of our self-life. We lived by whatever natural cravings and thoughts our minds dictated, living as rebellious children subject to God’s wrath like everyone else." 
Ephesians2:4 But God still loved us with such great love. He is so rich in compassion and mercy. 
Ephesians2:5 Even when we were dead and doomed in our many sins, he united us into the very life of Christ and saved us by his wonderful grace!" 
Ephesians2:6 He raised us up with Christ the exalted One, and we ascended with him into the glorious perfection and authority of the heavenly realm, for we are now co-seated as one with Christ!" 
Ephesians2:7 Throughout the coming ages we will be the visible display of the infinite riches of his grace and kindness, which was showered upon us in Jesus Christ." 
Ephesians2:8 For by grace you have been saved by faith. Nothing you did could ever earn this salvation, for it was the love gift from God that brought us to Christ!" 
Ephesians2:9 So no one will ever be able to boast, for salvation is never a reward for good works or human striving." 
Ephesians2:10 We have become his poetry, a re-created people that will fulfill the destiny he has given each of us, for we are joined to Jesus, the Anointed One. Even before we were born, God planned in advance our destiny and the good works we would do to fulfill it!" 
Ephesians2:11 So don’t forget that you were not born as Jews and were uncircumcised (circumcision itself is just a work of man’s hands); you had none of the Jewish covenants and laws; you were foreigners to Israel’s incredible heritage; you were without the covenants and prophetic promises of the Messiah, the promised hope, and without God." 
Ephesians2:12  
Ephesians2:13 Yet look at you now! Everything is new! Although you were once distant and far away from God, now you have been brought delightfully close to him through the sacred blood of Jesus—you have actually been united to Christ!" 
Ephesians2:14 Our reconciling “Peace” is Jesus! He has made Jew and non-Jew one in Christ. By dying as our sacrifice, he has broken down every wall of prejudice that separated us and has now made us equal through our union with Christ." 
Ephesians2:15 Ethnic hatred has been dissolved by the crucifixion of his precious body on the cross. The legal code that stood condemning every one of us has now been repealed by his command. His triune essence has made peace between us by starting over—forming one new race of humanity, Jews and non-Jews fused together in himself!" 
Ephesians2:16 Two have now become one, and we live restored to God and reconciled in the body of Christ. Through his crucifixion, hatred died." 
Ephesians2:17 For the Messiah has come to preach this sweet message of peace to you, the ones who were distant, and to those who are near." 
Ephesians2:18 And now, because we are united to Christ, we both have equal and direct access in the realm of the Holy Spirit to come before the Father!" 
Ephesians2:19 So, you are not foreigners or guests, but rather you are the children of the city of the holy ones, with all the rights as family members of the household of God." 
Ephesians2:20 You are rising like the perfectly fitted stones of the temple; and your lives have been built up together upon the foundation laid by the apostles and prophets, and best of all, you are connected to the Head Cornerstone of the building, the Anointed One, Jesus Christ himself!" 
Ephesians2:21 This entire building is under construction and is continually growing under his supervision until it rises up completed as the holy temple of the Lord himself. 
Ephesians2:22 This means that God is transforming each one of you into the Holy of Holies, his dwelling place, through the power of the Holy Spirit living in you!" 
Ephesians3:1 Beloved friends, because of my love for Jesus Christ, I am now his prisoner for the sake of all of you who are not Jews," 
Ephesians3:2 so that you will hear the gospel that God has entrusted to me to share with you. 
Ephesians3:3 For this wonderful mystery, which I briefly described, was given to me by divine revelation," 
Ephesians3:4 so that whenever you read it you will be able to understand my revelation and insight into the secret mystery of the Messiah. 
Ephesians3:5 There has never been a generation that has been given the detailed understanding of this glorious and divine mystery until now. He kept it a secret until this generation. God is revealing it only now to his sacred apostles and prophets by the Holy Spirit. 
Ephesians3:6 Here’s the secret: The gospel of grace has made you, non-Jewish believers, into coheirs of his promise through your union with him. And you have now become members of his body—one with the Anointed One!" 
Ephesians3:7 I have been made a messenger of this wonderful news by the gift of grace that works through me. Even though I am the least significant of all his holy believers, this grace-gift was imparted when the manifestation of his power came upon me. Grace alone empowers me so that I can boldly preach this wonderful message to non-Jewish people, sharing with them the unfading, inexhaustible riches of Christ, which are beyond comprehension." 
Ephesians3:8  
Ephesians3:9 My passion is to enlighten every person to this divine mystery. It was hidden for ages past until now, and kept a secret in the heart of God, the Creator of all." 
Ephesians3:10 The purpose of this was to unveil before every throne and rank of angelic orders in the heavenly realm God’s full and diverse wisdom revealed through the church. 
Ephesians3:11 This perfectly wise plan was destined from eternal ages and fulfilled completely in our Lord Jesus Christ, so that now" 
Ephesians3:12 we have boldness through him, and free access as kings before the Father because of our complete confidence in Christ’s faithfulness." 
Ephesians3:13 My dear friends, I pray that you will remain strong and not be discouraged or ashamed by all that I suffer on your behalf, for it is for your glory." 
Ephesians3:14 So I kneel humbly in awe before the Father of our Lord Jesus, the Messiah," 
Ephesians3:15 the perfect Father of every father and child in heaven and on the earth. 
Ephesians3:16 And I pray that he would unveil within you the unlimited riches of his glory and favor until supernatural strength floods your innermost being with his divine might and explosive power. 
Ephesians3:17 Then, by constantly using your faith, the life of Christ will be released deep inside you, and the resting place of his love will become the very source and root of your life." 
Ephesians3:18 Then you will be empowered to discover what every holy one experiences—the great magnitude of the astonishing love of Christ in all its dimensions. How deeply intimate and far-reaching is his love! How enduring and inclusive it is! Endless love beyond measurement that transcends our understanding—this extravagant love pours into you until you are filled to overflowing with the fullness of God! 
Ephesians3:19  
Ephesians3:20 Never doubt God’s mighty power to work in you and accomplish all this. He will achieve infinitely more than your greatest request, your most unbelievable dream, and exceed your wildest imagination! He will outdo them all, for his miraculous power constantly energizes you." 
Ephesians3:21 Now we offer up to God all the glorious praise that rises from every church in every generation through Jesus Christ—and all that will yet be manifest through time and eternity. Amen! 
Ephesians4:1 As a prisoner of the Lord, I plead with you to walk holy, in a way that is suitable to your high rank, given to you in your divine calling." 
Ephesians4:2 With tender humility and quiet patience, always demonstrate gentleness and generous love toward one another, especially toward those who may try your patience." 
Ephesians4:3 Be faithful to guard the sweet harmony of the Holy Spirit among you in the bonds of peace," 
Ephesians4:4 being one body and one spirit, as you were all called into the same glorious hope of divine destiny." 
Ephesians4:5 For the Lord God is one, and so are we, for we share in one faith, one baptism, and one Father." 
Ephesians4:6 And he is the perfect Father who leads us all, works through us all, and lives in us all!" 
Ephesians4:7 And he has generously given each one of us supernatural grace, according to the size of the gift of Christ." 
Ephesians4:8 This is why he says: “He ascends into the heavenly heights taking his many captured ones with him, and gifts were given to men.”" 
Ephesians4:9 He “ascended” means that he returned to heaven, after he had first descended from the heights of heaven, even to the lower regions, namely, the earth." 
Ephesians4:10 The same one who descended is also the one who ascended above the heights of heaven, in order to begin the restoration and fulfillment of all things." 
Ephesians4:11 And he has appointed some with grace to be apostles, and some with grace to be prophets, and some with grace to be evangelists, and some with grace to be pastors, and some with grace to be teachers." 
Ephesians4:12 And their calling is to nurture and prepare all the holy believers to do their own works of ministry, and as they do this they will enlarge and build up the body of Christ." 
Ephesians4:13 These grace ministries will function until we all attain oneness into the faith, until we all experience the fullness of what it means to know the Son of God, and finally we become one into a perfect man with the full dimensions of spiritual maturity and fully developed into the abundance of Christ." 
Ephesians4:14 And then our immaturity will end! And we will not be easily shaken by trouble, nor led astray by novel teachings or by the false doctrines of deceivers who teach clever lies." 
Ephesians4:15 But instead we will remain strong and always sincere in our love as we express the truth. All our direction and ministries will flow from Christ and lead us deeper into him, the anointed Head of his body, the church." 
Ephesians4:16 For his “body” has been formed in his image and is closely joined together and constantly connected as one. And every member has been given divine gifts to contribute to the growth of all; and as these gifts operate effectively throughout the whole body, we are built up and made perfect in love." 
Ephesians4:17 So with the wisdom given to me from the Lord I say: You should not live like the unbelievers around you who walk in their empty delusions. 
Ephesians4:18 Their corrupted logic has been clouded because their hearts are so far from God—their blinded understanding and deep-seated moral darkness keeps them from the true knowledge of God. 
Ephesians4:19 Because of spiritual apathy, they surrender their lives to lewdness, impurity, and sexual obsession." 
Ephesians4:20 But this is not the way of life that Christ has unfolded within you. 
Ephesians4:21 If you have really experienced the Anointed One, and heard his truth, it will be seen in your life; for we know that the ultimate reality is embodied in Jesus!" 
Ephesians4:22 And he has taught you to let go of the lifestyle of the ancient man, the old self-life, which was corrupted by sinful and deceitful desires that spring from delusions." 
Ephesians4:23 Now it’s time to be made new by every revelation that’s been given to you. 
Ephesians4:24 And to be transformed as you embrace the glorious Christ-within as your new life and live in union with him! For God has re-created you all over again in his perfect righteousness, and you now belong to him in the realm of true holiness." 
Ephesians4:25 So discard every form of dishonesty and lying so that you will be known as one who always speaks the truth, for we all belong to one another." 
Ephesians4:26 But don’t let the passion of your emotions lead you to sin! Don’t let anger control you or be fuel for revenge, not for even a day." 
Ephesians4:27 Don’t give the slanderous accuser, the Devil, an opportunity to manipulate you!" 
Ephesians4:28 If any one of you has stolen from someone else, never do it again. Instead, be industrious, earning an honest living, and then you’ll have enough to bless those in need." 
Ephesians4:29 And never let ugly or hateful words come from your mouth, but instead let your words become beautiful gifts that encourage others; do this by speaking words of grace to help them." 
Ephesians4:30 The Holy Spirit of God has sealed you in Jesus Christ until you experience your full salvation. So never grieve the Spirit of God or take for granted his holy influence in your life. 
Ephesians4:31 Lay aside bitter words, temper tantrums, revenge, profanity, and insults." 
Ephesians4:32 But instead be kind and affectionate toward one another. Has God graciously forgiven you? Then graciously forgive one another in the depths of Christ’s love. 
Ephesians5:1 Be imitators of God in everything you do, for then you will represent your Father as his beloved sons and daughters." 
Ephesians5:2 And continue to walk surrendered to the extravagant love of Christ, for he surrendered his life as a sacrifice for us. His great love for us was pleasing to God, like an aroma of adoration—a sweet healing fragrance." 
Ephesians5:3 And have nothing to do with sexual immorality, lust, or greed—for you are his holy ones and let no one be able to accuse you of them in any form." 
Ephesians5:4 Guard your speech. Forsake obscenities and worthless insults; these are nonsensical words that bring disgrace and are unnecessary. Instead, let worship fill your heart and spill out in your words." 
Ephesians5:5 For it has been made clear to you already that the kingdom of God cannot be accessed by anyone who is guilty of sexual sin, or who is impure or greedy—for greed is the essence of idolatry. How could they expect to have an inheritance in Christ’s kingdom while doing those things?" 
Ephesians5:6 Don’t be fooled by those who speak their empty words and deceptive teachings telling you otherwise. This is what brings God’s anger upon the rebellious! 
Ephesians5:7 Don’t listen to them or live like them at all. 
Ephesians5:8 Once your life was full of sin’s darkness, but now you have the very light of our Lord shining through you because of your union with him. Your mission is to live as children flooded with his revelation-light!" 
Ephesians5:9 And the supernatural fruits of his light will be seen in you—goodness, righteousness, and truth." 
Ephesians5:10 Then you will learn to choose what is beautiful to our Lord. 
Ephesians5:11 And don’t even associate with the servants of darkness because they have no fruit in them; instead, reveal truth to them." 
Ephesians5:12 The very things they do in secret are too vile and filthy to even mention. 
Ephesians5:13 Whatever the revelation-light exposes, it will also correct, and everything that reveals truth is light to the soul." 
Ephesians5:14 This is why the Scripture says, “Arise, you sleeper! Rise up from your coffin and the Anointed One will shine his light into you!”" 
Ephesians5:15 So be very careful how you live, not being like those with no understanding, but live honorably with true wisdom, for we are living in evil times. Take full advantage of every day as you spend your life for his purposes." 
Ephesians5:16  
Ephesians5:17 And don’t live foolishly for then you will have discernment to fully understand God’s will. 
Ephesians5:18 And don’t get drunk with wine, which is rebellion; instead be filled continually with the Holy Spirit." 
Ephesians5:19 And your hearts will overflow with a joyful song to the Lord. Keep speaking to each other with words of Scripture, singing the Psalms with praises and spontaneous songs given by the Spirit!" 
Ephesians5:20 Always give thanks to Father God for every person he brings into your life in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Ephesians5:21 And out of your reverence for Christ be supportive of each other in love. 
Ephesians5:22 For wives, this means being devoted to your husbands like you are tenderly devoted to our Lord," 
Ephesians5:23 for the husband provides leadership for the wife, just as Christ provides leadership for his church, as the Savior and Reviver of the body." 
Ephesians5:24 In the same way the church is devoted to Christ, let the wives be devoted to their husbands in everything." 
Ephesians5:25 And to the husbands, you are to demonstrate love for your wives with the same tender devotion that Christ demonstrated to us, his bride. For he died for us, sacrificing himself" 
Ephesians5:26 to make us holy and pure, cleansing us through the showering of the pure water of the Word of God." 
Ephesians5:27 All that he does in us is designed to make us a mature church for his pleasure, until we become a source of praise to him—glorious and radiant, beautiful and holy, without fault or flaw." 
Ephesians5:28 Husbands have the obligation of loving and caring for their wives the same way they love and care for their own bodies, for to love your wife is to love your own self." 
Ephesians5:29 No one abuses his own body, but pampers it—serving and satisfying its needs. That’s exactly what Christ does for his church!" 
Ephesians5:30 He serves and satisfies us as members of his body. 
Ephesians5:31 For this reason a man is to leave his father and his mother and lovingly hold to his wife, since the two have become joined as one flesh." 
Ephesians5:32 Marriage is the beautiful design of the Almighty, a great mystery of Christ and his church." 
Ephesians5:33 So every married man should be gracious to his wife just as he is gracious to himself. And every wife should be tenderly devoted to her husband. 
Ephesians6:1 Children, if you want to be wise, listen to your parents and do what they tell you, and the Lord will help you." 
Ephesians6:2 For the commandment, “Honor your father and your mother,” was the first of the Ten Commandments with a promise attached:" 
Ephesians6:3 “You will prosper and live a long, full life if you honor your parents.”" 
Ephesians6:4 Fathers, don’t exasperate your children, but raise them up with loving discipline and counsel that brings the revelation of our Lord." 
Ephesians6:5 Those who are employed should listen to their employers and obey their instructions with great respect and honor. Serve them with humility in your hearts as though you were working for the Master. 
Ephesians6:6 Always do what is right and not only when others are watching, so that you may please Christ as his servants by doing his will." 
Ephesians6:7 Serve your employers wholeheartedly and with love, as though you were serving Christ and not men." 
Ephesians6:8 Be assured that anything you do that is beautiful and excellent will be repaid by our Lord, whether you are an employee or an employer." 
Ephesians6:9 And to the caretakers of the flock I say, do what is right with your people by forgiving them when they offend you, for you know there is a Master in heaven that shows no favoritism." 
Ephesians6:10 Now my beloved ones, I have saved these most important truths for last: Be supernaturally infused with strength through your life-union with the Lord Jesus. Stand victorious with the force of his explosive power flowing in and through you." 
Ephesians6:11 Put on God’s complete set of armor provided for us, so that you will be protected as you fight against the evil strategies of the accuser!" 
Ephesians6:12 Your hand-to-hand combat is not with human beings, but with the highest principalities and authorities operating in rebellion under the heavenly realms. For they are a powerful class of demon-gods and evil spirits that hold this dark world in bondage." 
Ephesians6:13 Because of this, you must wear all the armor that God provides so you’re protected as you confront the slanderer, for you are destined for all things and will rise victorious." 
Ephesians6:14 Put on truth as a belt to strengthen you to stand in triumph. Put on holiness as the protective armor that covers your heart. 
Ephesians6:15 Stand on your feet alert, then you’ll always be ready to share the blessings of peace." 
Ephesians6:16 In every battle, take faith as your wrap-around shield, for it is able to extinguish the blazing arrows coming at you from the evil one!" 
Ephesians6:17 Embrace the power of salvation’s full deliverance, like a helmet to protect your thoughts from lies. And take the mighty razor-sharp Spirit-sword of the spoken word of God. Pray passionately in the Spirit, as you constantly intercede with every form of prayer at all times. Pray the blessings of God upon all his believers." 
Ephesians6:18  
Ephesians6:19 And pray also that God’s revelation would be released through me every time I preach the wonderful mystery of the hope-filled gospel. 
Ephesians6:20 Yes, pray that I may preach the wonderful news of God’s kingdom with bold freedom at every opportunity. Even though I am chained as a prisoner, I am his ambassador." 
Ephesians6:21 I am sending you a dear friend, Tychicus. He is a beloved brother and trustworthy minister in our Lord Jesus. He will share with you all the concerns that I have for your welfare and will inform you of how I am getting along. And he will also prophesy over you to encourage your hearts." 
Ephesians6:22  
Ephesians6:23 So may God shower his peace upon you, my beloved friends. And may the blessings of faith and love fill your hearts from God the Father and from our Lord Jesus, the Messiah." 
Ephesians6:24 Abundant grace will be with you all as each of you love our Lord Jesus Christ without corruption. Amen! Love in Christ, Paul" 
Philippians1:1 From Paul and Timothy, both of us servants of Jesus, the Anointed One. To all his devoted followers in Philippi, including your pastors, and to all the servant-leaders of the church." 
Philippians1:2 May the blessings of divine grace and supernatural peace that flow from God our wonderful Father, and our Messiah, the Lord Jesus, be upon your lives." 
Philippians1:3 My prayers for you are full of praise to God as I give him thanks for you with great joy! I’m so grateful for our union 
Philippians1:4  
Philippians1:5 and our enduring partnership that began the first time I presented to you the gospel. 
Philippians1:6 I pray with great faith for you, because I’m fully convinced that the One who began this gracious work in you will faithfully continue the process of maturing you until the unveiling of our Lord Jesus Christ!" 
Philippians1:7 It’s no wonder I pray with such confidence, since you have a permanent place in my heart! You have remained partners with me in the wonderful grace of God even though I’m here in chains for standing up for the truth of the gospel." 
Philippians1:8 Only God knows how much I dearly love you with the tender affection of Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Philippians1:9 I continue to pray for your love to grow and increase beyond measure, bringing you into the rich revelation of spiritual insight in all things." 
Philippians1:10 This will enable you to choose the most excellent way of all —becoming pure and without offense until the unveiling of Christ. 
Philippians1:11 And you will be filled completely with the fruits of righteousness that are found in Jesus, the Anointed One—bringing great praise and glory to God!" 
Philippians1:12 I want you to know, dear ones, what has happened to me has not hindered, but helped my ministry of preaching the gospel, causing it to expand and spread to many people." 
Philippians1:13 For now the elite Roman guards and government officials overseeing my imprisonment have plainly recognized that I am here because of my love for the Anointed One. 
Philippians1:14 And what I’m going through has actually caused many believers to become even more courageous in the Lord and to be bold and passionate to preach the Word of God, all because of my chains." 
Philippians1:15 It’s true that there are some who preach Christ out of competition and controversy, for they are jealous over the way God has used me. Many others have purer motives —they preach with grace and love filling their hearts," 
Philippians1:16 because they know I’ve been destined for the purpose of defending the revelation of God. 
Philippians1:17 Those who preach Christ with ambition and competition are insincere—they just want to add to the hardships of my imprisonment. 
Philippians1:18 Yet in spite of all of this I am overjoyed! For what does it matter as long as Christ is being preached? If they preach him with mixed motives or with genuine love, the message of Christ is still being preached. And I will continue to rejoice" 
Philippians1:19 because I know that the lavish supply of the Spirit of Jesus, the Anointed One, and your intercession for me will bring about my deliverance." 
Philippians1:20 No matter what, I will continue to hope and passionately cling to Christ, so that he will be openly revealed through me before everyone’s eyes. So I will not be ashamed! In my life or in my death, Christ will be magnified in me." 
Philippians1:21 My true life is the Anointed One, and dying means gaining more of him." 
Philippians1:22 So here’s my dilemma: Each day I live means bearing more fruit in my ministry; yet I fervently long to be liberated from this body and joined fully to Christ. That would suit me fine, but the greatest advantage to you would be that I remain alive. So you can see why I’m torn between the two—I don’t know which I prefer." 
Philippians1:23  
Philippians1:24  
Philippians1:25 Yet deep in my heart I’m confident that I will be spared so I can add to your joy and further strengthen and mature your faith. 
Philippians1:26 When I am freed to come to you, my deliverance will give you a reason to boast even more in Jesus Christ." 
Philippians1:27 Whatever happens, keep living your lives based on the reality of the gospel of Christ. Then when I come to see you, or hear good reports of you, I’ll know that you stand united in one Spirit and one passion—celebrating together as conquerors in the faith of the gospel." 
Philippians1:28 And then you will never be shaken or intimidated by the opposition that rises up against us. Your courage will prove to be a sure sign from God of their coming destruction. 
Philippians1:29 For God has graciously given you the privilege not only to believe in Christ, but also to suffer for him." 
Philippians1:30 For you have been called by him to endure the conflict in the same way I have endured it—for you know I’m not giving up. 
Philippians2:1 Look at how much encouragement you’ve found in your relationship with the Anointed One! You are filled to overflowing with his comforting love. You have experienced a deepening friendship with the Holy Spirit and have felt his tender affection and mercy. 
Philippians2:2 So I’m asking you, my friends, that you be joined together in perfect unity—with one heart, one passion, and united in one love. Walk together with one harmonious purpose and you will fill my heart with unbounded joy." 
Philippians2:3 Be free from pride-filled opinions, for they will only harm your cherished unity. Don’t allow self-promotion to hide in your hearts, but in authentic humility put others first and view others as more important than yourselves." 
Philippians2:4 Abandon every display of selfishness. Possess a greater concern for what matters to others instead of your own interests. 
Philippians2:5 And consider the example that Jesus, the Anointed One, has set before us. Let his mindset become your motivation." 
Philippians2:6 He existed in the form of God, yet he gave no thought to seizing equality with God as his supreme prize." 
Philippians2:7 Instead he emptied himself of his outward glory by reducing himself to the form of a lowly servant. He became human! 
Philippians2:8 He humbled himself and became vulnerable, choosing to be revealed as a man and was obedient. He was a perfect example, even in his death—a criminal’s death by crucifixion!" 
Philippians2:9 Because of that obedience, God exalted him and multiplied his greatness! He has now been given the greatest of all names!" 
Philippians2:10 The authority of the name of Jesus causes every knee to bow in reverence! Everything and everyone will one day submit to this name—in the heavenly realm, in the earthly realm, and in the demonic realm." 
Philippians2:11 And every tongue will proclaim in every language: “Jesus Christ is Lord Yahweh,” bringing glory and honor to God, his Father!" 
Philippians2:12 My beloved ones, just like you’ve always listened to everything I’ve taught you in the past, I’m asking you now to keep following my instructions as though I were right there with you. Now you must continue to make this new life fully manifested as you live in the holy awe of God—which brings you trembling into his presence." 
Philippians2:13 God will continually revitalize you, implanting within you the passion to do what pleases him." 
Philippians2:14 Live a cheerful life, without complaining or division among yourselves." 
Philippians2:15 For then you will be seen as innocent, faultless, and pure children of God, even though you live in the midst of a brutal and perverse culture. For you will appear among them as shining lights in the universe," 
Philippians2:16 holding out the words of eternal life. I haven’t labored among you for nothing, for your lives are the fruit of my ministry and will be my glorious boast at the unveiling of Christ!" 
Philippians2:17 But I will rejoice even if my life is poured out like a liquid offering to God over your sacrificial and surrendered lives of faith. 
Philippians2:18 And so no matter what happens to me, you should rejoice in ecstatic celebration with me!" 
Philippians2:19 Yet I’m trusting in our Lord Jesus that I may send Timothy to you soon, so I can be refreshed when I find out how you’re doing." 
Philippians2:20 Timothy is like no other. He carries the same passion for your welfare that I carry in my heart. 
Philippians2:21 For it seems as though everyone else is busy seeking what is best for themselves instead of the things that are most important to our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Philippians2:22 You already know about his excellent reputation, since he has served alongside me as a loyal son in the work of ministry." 
Philippians2:23 After I see what transpires with me he’s the one I will send to you to bless you. 
Philippians2:24 And I’m trusting in my Lord to return to you in due time. 
Philippians2:25 But for now, I feel a stirring in my heart to send Epaphroditus back to you immediately. He’s a friend to me and a wonderful brother and fellow soldier who has worked with me as we serve as ministers of the gospel. And you sent him as your apostle to minister to me in my need." 
Philippians2:26 But now he is grieved to know that you found out he had been sick, so he longs to return and comfort you in this." 
Philippians2:27 It’s true he almost died, but God showed him mercy and healed him. And I’m so thankful to God for his healing, as I was spared from having the sorrow of losing him on top of all my other troubles!" 
Philippians2:28 So you can see why I’m delighted to send him to you now. I know that you’re anxious to see him and rejoice in his healing, and it encourages me to know how happy you’ll be to have him back." 
Philippians2:29 So warmly welcome him home in the Lord, with joyous love, and esteem him highly, for people like him deserve it." 
Philippians2:30 Because of me, he put his life on the line, despising the danger, so that he could provide for me with what you couldn’t, since you were so far away. And he did it all because of his ministry for Christ." 
Philippians3:1 My beloved ones, don’t ever limit your joy or fail to rejoice in the wonderful experience of knowing our Lord Jesus! I don’t mind repeating what I’ve already written you because it protects you—" 
Philippians3:2 beware of those religious hypocrites who teach that you should be circumcised to please God. 
Philippians3:3 For we have already experienced “heart-circumcision,” and we worship God in the power and freedom of the Holy Spirit, not in laws and religious duties. We are those who boast in what Jesus Christ has done, and not in what we can accomplish in our own strength." 
Philippians3:4 It’s true that I once relied on all that I had become. I had a reason to boast and impress people with my accomplishments—more than others—for my pedigree was impeccable. 
Philippians3:5 I was born a true Hebrew of the heritage of Israel as the son of a Jewish man from the tribe of Benjamin. I was circumcised eight days after my birth and was raised in the strict tradition of Orthodox Judaism, living a separated and devout life as a Pharisee." 
Philippians3:6 And concerning the righteousness of the Torah, no one surpassed me; I was without a peer. Furthermore, as a fiery defender of the truth, I persecuted the messianic believers with religious zeal." 
Philippians3:7 Yet all of the accomplishments that I once took credit for, I’ve now forsaken them and I regard it all as nothing compared to the delight of experiencing Jesus Christ as my Lord!" 
Philippians3:8 To truly know him meant letting go of everything from my past and throwing all my boasting on the garbage heap. It’s all like a pile of manure to me now, so that I may be enriched in the reality of knowing Jesus Christ and embrace him as Lord in all of his greatness." 
Philippians3:9 My passion is to be consumed with him and not cling to my own “righteousness” based in keeping the written Law. My only “righteousness” will be his, based on the faithfulness of Jesus Christ—the very righteousness that comes from God." 
Philippians3:10 And I continually long to know the wonders of Jesus and to experience the overflowing power of his resurrection working in me. I will be one with him in his sufferings and become like him in his death. 
Philippians3:11 Only then will I be able to experience complete oneness with him in his resurrection from the realm of death. 
Philippians3:12 I admit that I haven’t yet acquired the absolute fullness that I’m pursuing, but I run with passion into his abundance so that I may reach the purpose for which Christ Jesus laid hold of me to make me his own." 
Philippians3:13 I don’t depend on my own strength to accomplish this; however I do have one compelling focus: I forget all of the past as I fasten my heart to the future instead. 
Philippians3:14 I run straight for the divine invitation of reaching the heavenly goal and gaining the victory-prize through the anointing of Jesus. 
Philippians3:15 So let all who are fully mature have this same passion, and if anyone is not yet gripped by these desires, God will reveal it to them." 
Philippians3:16 And let us all advance together to reach this victory-prize, following one path with one passion." 
Philippians3:17 My beloved friends, imitate my walk with God and follow all those who walk according to the way of life we modeled before you." 
Philippians3:18 For there are many who live by different standards. As I’ve warned you many times (I weep as I write these words), they are enemies of the cross of the Anointed One and" 
Philippians3:19 doom awaits them. Their god has possessed them and made them mute. Their boast is in their shameful lifestyles and their minds are in the dirt. 
Philippians3:20 But we are a colony of heaven on earth as we cling tightly to our life-giver, the Lord Jesus Christ," 
Philippians3:21 who will transform our humble bodies and transfigure us into the identical likeness of his glorified body. And using his matchless power, he continually subdues everything to himself." 
Philippians4:1 My dear and precious friends, whom I deeply love, you have truly become my glorious joy and crown of reward. Now arise in the fullness of your union with our Lord." 
Philippians4:2 And I plead with Euodia and Syntyche to settle their disagreement and be restored with one mind in our Lord. 
Philippians4:3 I would like my dear friend and burden-bearer to help resolve this issue, for both women have diligently labored with me for the prize and helped in spreading the revelation of the gospel, along with Clement and the rest of my coworkers. All of their names are written in the Book of Life." 
Philippians4:4 Be cheerful with joyous celebration in every season of life. Let your joy overflow! 
Philippians4:5 And let gentleness be seen in every relationship, for our Lord is ever near." 
Philippians4:6 Don’t be pulled in different directions or worried about a thing. Be saturated in prayer throughout each day, offering your faith-filled requests before God with overflowing gratitude. Tell him every detail of your life," 
Philippians4:7 then God’s wonderful peace that transcends human understanding, will guard your heart and mind through Jesus Christ." 
Philippians4:8 Keep your thoughts continually fixed on all that is authentic and real, honorable and admirable, beautiful and respectful, pure and holy, merciful and kind. And fasten your thoughts on every glorious work of God, praising him always." 
Philippians4:9 Put into practice the example of all that you have heard from me or seen in my life and the God of peace will be with you in all things. 
Philippians4:10 My heart overflows with joy when I think of how you demonstrated love to me by your financial support of my ministry. For even though you have so little, you still continue to help me at every opportunity." 
Philippians4:11 I’m not telling you this because I’m in need, for I have learned to be satisfied in any circumstance." 
Philippians4:12 I know what it means to lack, and I know what it means to experience overwhelming abundance. For I’m trained in the secret of overcoming all things, whether in fullness or in hunger. And I find that the strength of Christ’s explosive power infuses me to conquer every difficulty." 
Philippians4:13  
Philippians4:14 You’ve so graciously provided for my essential needs during this season of difficulty. 
Philippians4:15 For I want you to know that the Philippian church was the only church that supported me in the beginning as I went out to preach the gospel. You were the only church that sowed into me financially," 
Philippians4:16 and when I was in Thessalonica, you supported me for well over a year." 
Philippians4:17 I mention this not because I’m requesting a gift, but so that the fruit of your generosity may bring you an abundant reward." 
Philippians4:18 I now have all I need—more than enough—I’m abundantly satisfied! For I’ve received the gift you sent by Epaphroditus and viewed it as a sweet sacrifice, perfumed with the fragrance of your faithfulness, which is so pleasing to God!" 
Philippians4:19 I am convinced that my God will fully satisfy every need you have, for I have seen the abundant riches of glory revealed to me through Jesus Christ!" 
Philippians4:20 And God our Father will receive all the glory and the honor throughout the eternity of eternities! Amen! 
Philippians4:21 Give my warm greetings to all the believers in Christ Jesus. 
Philippians4:22 All the brothers and sisters that are here with me send their loving greetings, especially the converts from Caesar’s household." 
Philippians4:23 May the grace and favor of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit! 
Colossians1:1 My name is Paul and I have been chosen by Jesus Christ to be his apostle, by the calling and destined purpose of God. My colleague, Timothy, and I send this letter to all the holy believers who have been united to Jesus as beloved followers of the Messiah. May God, our true Father, release upon your lives the riches of his kind favor and heavenly peace through the Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Colossians1:2  
Colossians1:3 Every time we pray for you our hearts overflow with thanksgiving to Father God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
Colossians1:4 For we have heard of your devoted lives of faith in Christ Jesus and your tender love toward all his holy believers. 
Colossians1:5 Your faith and love rise within you as you access all the treasures of your inheritance stored up in the heavenly realm. For the revelation of the true gospel is as real today as the day you first heard of our glorious hope, now that you have believed in the truth of the gospel." 
Colossians1:6 This is the wonderful message that is being spread everywhere, powerfully changing hearts throughout the earth, just like it has changed you! Every believer of this good news bears the fruit of eternal life as they experience the reality of God’s grace." 
Colossians1:7 Our beloved coworker, Epaphras, was there from the beginning to thoroughly teach you the astonishing revelation of the gospel, and he serves you faithfully as Christ’s representative." 
Colossians1:8 He’s informed us of the many wonderful ways love is being demonstrated through your lives by the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. 
Colossians1:9 Since we first heard about you, we’ve kept you always in our prayers that you would receive the perfect knowledge of God’s pleasure over your lives, making you reservoirs of every kind of wisdom and spiritual understanding." 
Colossians1:10 We pray that you would walk in the ways of true righteousness, pleasing God in every good thing you do. Then you’ll become fruit-bearing branches, yielding to his life, and maturing in the rich experience of knowing God in his fullness!" 
Colossians1:11 And we pray that you would be energized with all his explosive power from the realm of his magnificent glory, filling you with great hope." 
Colossians1:12 Your hearts can soar with joyful gratitude when you think of how God made you worthy to receive the glorious inheritance freely given to us by living in the light. 
Colossians1:13 He has rescued us completely from the tyrannical rule of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom realm of his beloved Son. 
Colossians1:14 For in the Son all our sins are canceled and we have the release of redemption through his very blood. 
Colossians1:15 He is the divine portrait, the true likeness of the invisible God, and the firstborn heir of all creation." 
Colossians1:16 For in him was created the universe of things, both in the heavenly realm and on the earth, all that is seen and all that is unseen. Every seat of power, realm of government, principality, and authority—it all exists through him and for his purpose!" 
Colossians1:17 He existed before anything was made, and now everything finds completion in him." 
Colossians1:18 He is the Head of his body, which is the church. And since he is the beginning and the firstborn heir in resurrection, he is the most exalted One, holding first place in everything." 
Colossians1:19 For God is satisfied to have all his fullness dwelling in Christ. 
Colossians1:20 And by the blood of his cross, everything in heaven and earth is brought back to himself— back to its original intent, restored to innocence again!" 
Colossians1:21 Even though you were once distant from him, living in the shadows of your evil thoughts and actions, he reconnected you back to himself. He released his supernatural peace to you through the sacrifice of his own body as the sin-payment on your behalf so that you would dwell in his presence. And now there is nothing between you and Father God, for he sees you as holy, flawless, and restored," 
Colossians1:22  
Colossians1:23 if indeed you continue to advance in faith, assured of a firm foundation to grow upon. Never be shaken from the hope of the gospel you have believed in. And this is the glorious news I preach all over the world." 
Colossians1:24 I can even celebrate the sorrows I have experienced on your behalf; for as I join with you in your difficulties, it helps you to discover what lacks in your understanding of the sufferings Jesus Christ experienced for his body, the church." 
Colossians1:25 This is the very reason I’ve been made a minister by the authority of God and a servant to his body, so that in his detailed plan I would fully equip you with the Word of God." 
Colossians1:26 There is a divine mystery—a secret surprise that has been concealed from the world for generations, but now it’s being revealed, unfolded and manifested for every holy believer to experience." 
Colossians1:27 Living within you is the Christ who floods you with the expectation of glory! This mystery of Christ, embedded within us, becomes a heavenly treasure chest of hope filled with the riches of glory for his people, and God wants everyone to know it!" 
Colossians1:28 Christ is our message! We preach to awaken hearts and bring every person into the full understanding of truth. It has become my inspiration and passion in ministry to labor with a tireless intensity, with his power flowing through me, to present to every believer the revelation of being his perfect one in Jesus Christ." 
Colossians1:29  
Colossians2:1 I wish you could know how much I have struggled for you and for the church in Laodicea, and for the many other friends I’ve yet to meet." 
Colossians2:2 I am contending for you that your hearts will be wrapped in the comfort of heaven and woven together into love’s fabric. This will give you access to all the riches of God as you experience the revelation of God’s great mystery—Christ. 
Colossians2:3 For our spiritual wealth is in him, like hidden treasure waiting to be discovered—heaven’s wisdom and endless riches of revelation knowledge." 
Colossians2:4 I want you to know this so that no one will come and lead you into error through their persuasive arguments and clever words. 
Colossians2:5 Even though I’m separated from you geographically, my spirit is present there with you. And I’m overjoyed to see how disciplined and deeply committed you are because you have such a solid faith in Christ, the Anointed One." 
Colossians2:6 In the same way you received Jesus our Lord and Messiah by faith, continue your journey of faith, progressing further into your union with him!" 
Colossians2:7 Your spiritual roots go deeply into his life as you are continually infused with strength, encouraged in every way. For you are established in the faith you have absorbed and enriched by your devotion to him!" 
Colossians2:8 Beware that no one distracts you or intimidates you in their attempt to lead you away from Christ’s fullness by pretending to be full of wisdom when they’re filled with endless arguments of human logic. For they operate with humanistic and clouded judgments based on the mindset of this world system, and not the anointed truths of the Anointed One." 
Colossians2:9 For he is the complete fullness of deity living in human form. 
Colossians2:10 And our own completeness is now found in him. We are completely filled with God as Christ’s fullness overflows within us. He is the Head of every kingdom and authority in the universe! 
Colossians2:11 Through our union with him we have experienced circumcision of heart. All of the guilt and power of sin has been cut away and is now extinct because of what Christ, the Anointed One, has accomplished for us." 
Colossians2:12 For we’ve been buried with him into his death. Our “baptism into death” also means we were raised with him when we believed in God’s resurrection power, the power that raised him from death’s realm." 
Colossians2:13 This “realm of death” describes our former state, for we were held in sin’s grasp. But now, we’ve been resurrected out of that “realm of death” never to return, for we are forever alive and forgiven of all our sins!" 
Colossians2:14 He canceled out every legal violation we had on our record and the old arrest warrant that stood to indict us. He erased it all—our sins, our stained soul—he deleted it all and they cannot be retrieved! Everything we once were in Adam has been placed onto his cross and nailed permanently there as a public display of cancellation." 
Colossians2:15 Then Jesus made a public spectacle of all the powers and principalities of darkness, stripping away from them every weapon and all their spiritual authority and power to accuse us. And by the power of the cross, Jesus led them around as prisoners in a procession of triumph. He was not their prisoner; they were his!" 
Colossians2:16 So why would you allow anyone to judge you because of what you eat or drink, or insist that you keep the feasts, observe new moon celebrations, or the Sabbath?" 
Colossians2:17 All of these were but a prophetic shadow and the evidence of what would be fulfilled, for the body is now Christ!" 
Colossians2:18 Don’t let anyone disqualify you from your prize! Don’t let their pretended sincerity fool you as they deliberately lead you into their initiation of angel worship. For they take pleasure in pretending to be experts of something they know nothing about. Their reasoning is meaningless and comes only from their own opinions. 
Colossians2:19 They refuse to take hold of the true source. But we receive directly from him, and his life supplies vitality into every part of his body through the joining ligaments connecting us all as one. He is the divine Head who guides his body and causes it to grow by the supernatural power of God." 
Colossians2:20 For you were included in the death of Christ and have died with him to the religious system and powers of this world. Don’t retreat back to being bullied by the standards and opinions of religion— 
Colossians2:21 for example, their strict requirements, “You can’t associate with that person!” or, “Don’t eat that!” or, “You can’t touch that!”" 
Colossians2:22 These are the doctrines of men and corrupt customs that are worthless to help you spiritually. 
Colossians2:23 For though they may appear to possess the promise of wisdom in their submission to God through the deprivation of their physical bodies, it is actually nothing more than empty rules rooted in religious rituals!" 
Colossians3:1 Christ’s resurrection is your resurrection too. This is why we are to yearn for all that is above, for that’s where Christ sits enthroned at the place of all power, honor, and authority!" 
Colossians3:2 Yes, feast on all the treasures of the heavenly realm and fill your thoughts with heavenly realities, and not with the distractions of the natural realm." 
Colossians3:3 Your crucifixion with Christ has severed the tie to this life, and now your true life is hidden away in God in Christ." 
Colossians3:4 And as Christ himself is seen for who he really is, who you really are will also be revealed, for you are now one with him in his glory!" 
Colossians3:5 Live as one who has died to every form of sexual sin and impurity. Live as one who has died to the desires for forbidden things, including the desire for wealth, which is the essence of idol worship." 
Colossians3:6 When you live in these vices you ignite the anger of God against these acts of disobedience. 
Colossians3:7 That’s how you once behaved, characterized by your evil deeds. But now it’s time to eliminate them from your lives once and for all—anger, fits of rage, all forms of hatred, cursing, filthy speech," 
Colossians3:8  
Colossians3:9 and lying. Lay aside your old Adam-self with its masquerade and disguise. 
Colossians3:10 For you have acquired new creation life which is continually being renewed into the likeness of the One who created you; giving you the full revelation of God. 
Colossians3:11 In this new creation life, your nationality makes no difference, nor your ethnicity, education, nor economic status— they matter nothing. For it is Christ that means everything as he lives in every one of us!" 
Colossians3:12 You are always and dearly loved by God! So robe yourself with virtues of God, since you have been divinely chosen to be holy. Be merciful as you endeavor to understand others, and be compassionate, showing kindness toward all. Be gentle and humble, unoffendable in your patience with others." 
Colossians3:13 Tolerate the weaknesses of those in the family of faith, forgiving one another in the same way you have been graciously forgiven by Jesus Christ. If you find fault with someone, release this same gift of forgiveness to them." 
Colossians3:14 For love is supreme and must flow through each of these virtues. Love becomes the mark of true maturity. 
Colossians3:15 Let your heart be always guided by the peace of the Anointed One, who called you to peace as part of his one body. And always be thankful." 
Colossians3:16 Let the word of Christ live in you richly, flooding you with all wisdom. Apply the Scriptures as you teach and instruct one another with the Psalms, and with festive praises, and with prophetic songs given to you spontaneously by the Spirit, so sing to God with all your hearts!" 
Colossians3:17 Let every activity of your lives and every word that comes from your lips be drenched with the beauty of our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One. And bring your constant praise to God the Father because of what Christ has done for you!" 
Colossians3:18 Let every wife be supportive and tenderly devoted to her husband, for this is a beautiful illustration of our devotion to Christ." 
Colossians3:19 Let every husband be filled with cherishing love for his wife and never be insensitive toward her. 
Colossians3:20 Let the children respect and pay attention to their parents in everything for this pleases our Lord Jesus. 
Colossians3:21 And fathers, don’t have unrealistic expectations for your children or else they may become discouraged." 
Colossians3:22 Let every employee listen well and follow the instructions of their employer, not just when their employers are watching, and not in pretense, but faithful in all things. For we are to live our lives with pure hearts in the constant awe and wonder of our Lord God." 
Colossians3:23 Put your heart and soul into every activity you do, as though you are doing it for the Lord himself and not merely for others." 
Colossians3:24 For we know that we will receive a reward, an inheritance from the Lord, as we serve the Lord Yahweh, the Anointed One!" 
Colossians3:25 A disciple will be repaid for what he has learned and followed, for God pays no attention to the titles or prestige of men." 
Colossians4:1 Employers, treat your workers with equality and justice as you know that you also have a Lord and Master in heaven who is watching you." 
Colossians4:2 Be faithful to pray as intercessors who are fully alert and giving thanks to God. 
Colossians4:3 And please pray for me, that God will open a door of opportunity for us to preach the revelation of the mystery of Christ, for whose sake I am imprisoned." 
Colossians4:4 Pray that I would unfold and reveal fully this mystery, for that is my delightful assignment." 
Colossians4:5 Walk in the wisdom of God as you live before the unbelievers, and make it your duty to make him known." 
Colossians4:6 Let every word you speak be drenched with grace and tempered with truth and clarity. For then you will be prepared to give a respectful answer to anyone who asks about your faith. 
Colossians4:7 Tychicus will tell you about what is happening with me. I have sent him to you so that he could find out how you are doing in your journey of faith, and bring comfort and encouragement to your hearts. For he is a beloved brother in Christ, a faithful servant of the gospel and my ministry partner in our Master Yahweh ’s work." 
Colossians4:8  
Colossians4:9 I have also sent Onesimus, who is from your city, and is also a beloved and faithful brother who will inform you of all that we’re enduring." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus, a fellow prisoner here with me, sends you his love. And Joshua (who is also called Justus) along with Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, also send you their loving greetings. You have already been informed that if Mark comes to you, receive him warmly. These three men are the only ones of the circumcision who have aided me here in the work of the kingdom of God, and they have been a great blessing to me." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus, a fellow prisoner here with me, sends you his love. And Joshua (who is also called Justus) along with Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, also send you their loving greetings. You have already been informed that if Mark comes to you, receive him warmly. These three men are the only ones of the circumcision who have aided me here in the work of the kingdom of God, and they have been a great blessing to me." 
Colossians4:11  
Colossians4:12 Epaphras, who is also from Colossae, sends his loving greetings. I can tell you that he is a true servant of Christ, who always labors and intercedes for you. His prayers are filled with requests to God that you would grow and mature, standing complete and perfect in the beauty of God’s plan for your lives. Epaphras has such great zeal and passion for you and for those who are from Laodicea and from Hierapolis." 
Colossians4:13  
Colossians4:14 And Luke, the beloved physician, sends his warm greetings to you, and Demas also." 
Colossians4:14 And Luke, the beloved physician, sends his warm greetings to you, and Demas also." 
Colossians4:15 Give my greetings to all the believers in Laodicea. And pray for dear Nymphas and the church that gathers in her home. 
Colossians4:16 Once you’ve read this letter publicly to the church, please send it on to the church of the Laodiceans, and make sure you read the letter that I wrote to them." 
Colossians4:17 Be sure you give Archippus this message: “Be faithful to complete the ministry you received from our Lord Jesus!” 
Colossians4:18 Now finally, I, Paul, write this with my own handwriting, and I send my loving greetings to you! Remember me in my imprisonment. May the blessings of God’s grace overwhelm you! Love in Christ, Paul" 
1Thessalonians1:1 From Paul, Silas, and Timothy. We send our greetings to you, the congregation of believers in Thessalonica, which is in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. May God’s delightful grace and peace rest upon you." 
1Thessalonians1:2 We are grateful to God for your lives and we always pray for you. 
1Thessalonians1:3 For we remember before our God and Father how you put your faith into practice, how your love motivates you to serve others, and how unrelenting is your hope-filled patience in our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians1:4 Dear brothers and sisters, you are dearly loved by God and we know that he has chosen you to be his very own." 
1Thessalonians1:5 For our gospel came to you not merely in the form of words but in mighty power infused with the Holy Spirit and deep conviction. Surely you remember how we lived our lives transparently before you to encourage you. 
1Thessalonians1:6 And you became followers of my example and the Lord’s when you received the word with the joy of the Holy Spirit, even though it resulted in tremendous trials and persecution." 
1Thessalonians1:7 Now you have become an example for all the believers to follow throughout the provinces of Greece. 
1Thessalonians1:8 The message of the Lord has sounded out from you not only in Greece, but its echo has been heard in every place where people are hearing about your strong faith. We don’t need to brag on you," 
1Thessalonians1:9 for everyone tells the story of the kind of welcome you showed us when we first came to you. And everyone knows how wonderfully you turned to God from idols to serve the true and living God. 
1Thessalonians1:10 And now you eagerly expect his Son from heaven—Jesus, the deliverer, whom he raised from the dead and who rescues us from the coming wrath." 
1Thessalonians2:1 My dear brothers and sisters, it’s obvious that our ministry among you has proven to be fruitful." 
1Thessalonians2:2 And though we had already suffered greatly in Philippi, where we were shamefully mistreated, we were emboldened by faith in our God to fearlessly preach his wonderful gospel to you in spite of incredible opposition." 
1Thessalonians2:3 Our coming alongside you to encourage you was not out of some delusion, or impure motive, or an intention to mislead you," 
1Thessalonians2:4 but we have been approved by God to be those who preach the gospel. So our motivation to preach is not pleasing people but pleasing God, who thoroughly examines our hearts." 
1Thessalonians2:5 God is our witness that when we came to encourage you, we never once used cunning compliments as a pretext for greed," 
1Thessalonians2:6 nor did we crave the praises of men, whether you or others." 
1Thessalonians2:7 Even though we could have imposed upon you our demands as apostles of Christ, instead we showed you kindness and were gentle among you. We cared for you in the same way a nursing mother cares for her own children." 
1Thessalonians2:8 With a mother’s love and affectionate attachment to you, we were very happy to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our lives—because you had become so dear to us." 
1Thessalonians2:9 Beloved brothers and sisters, surely you remember how hard we labored among you. We worked night and day so that we would not become a burden to you while we preached the wonderful gospel of God." 
1Thessalonians2:10 With God as our witness you saw how we lived among you—in holiness, in godly relationships, and without fault." 
1Thessalonians2:11 And you know how affectionately we treated each one of you, like a loving father cares for his own children." 
1Thessalonians2:12 We comforted and encouraged you and challenged you to adopt a lifestyle worthy of God, who invites you into his kingdom and glory." 
1Thessalonians2:13 This is why we continually thank God for your lives, because you received our message wholeheartedly. You embraced it not as the fabrication of men but as the word of God. And the word continues to be an energizing force in you who believe." 
1Thessalonians2:14 My dear brothers and sisters, the same thing happened to you as happened to God’s churches in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you received the same kind of mistreatment from your fellow countrymen as they did from theirs, the Jews" 
1Thessalonians2:14 My dear brothers and sisters, the same thing happened to you as happened to God’s churches in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you received the same kind of mistreatment from your fellow countrymen as they did from theirs, the Jews" 
1Thessalonians2:15 who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets and ran us out of town. They are offending God and hostile to everyone else 
1Thessalonians2:16 by hindering us from speaking to the unbelievers so that they might be saved. By so doing they are constantly filling up to the brim the measure of their guilt, and punishment has come upon them at last!" 
1Thessalonians2:17 Beloved friends, we may have been torn away from you physically for a season, but never in our hearts. For we have had intense longings and have endeavored to come and see in your faces the reflection of this great love." 
1Thessalonians2:18 We miss you badly, and I personally wanted to come to you, trying again and again, but our adversary, Satan, blocked our way." 
1Thessalonians2:19 For what will be our confident hope, our exhilarating joy, or our wonderful trophy that we will boast in before our Lord Jesus at his appearing? It is you!" 
1Thessalonians2:20 Yes, you are our glorious pride and joy!" 
1Thessalonians3:1 When we could bear it no longer, we decided that we would remain in Athens" 
1Thessalonians3:2 and send Timothy in our place. He is our beloved brother and coworker with God in preaching the gospel. We knew he would strengthen your faith and encourage your hearts 
1Thessalonians3:3 so that no one would be shaken by these persecutions, for you know that we are destined for this." 
1Thessalonians3:4 In fact, when we were with you we forewarned you: “Suffering and persecution is coming.” And so it has happened, as you well know." 
1Thessalonians3:5 For this reason, when I could endure it no longer, I sent our brother to find out if your faith was still strong, for I was concerned that the tempter had somehow enticed you and our labor would have been in vain." 
1Thessalonians3:6 But now, Timothy has just returned to us and brought us the terrific news of your faith and love. He informed us that you still hold us dear in your hearts and that you long to see us as much as we long to see you." 
1Thessalonians3:7 So, our dear brothers and sisters, in the midst of all our distress and difficulties, your steadfastness of faith has greatly encouraged our hearts." 
1Thessalonians3:8 We feel alive again as long as we know that you are standing firm in the Lord. 
1Thessalonians3:9 How could we ever thank God enough for all the wonderful joy that we feel before our God because of you? 
1Thessalonians3:10 Every night and day we sincerely and fervently pray that we may see you face-to-face and furnish you with whatever may be lacking in your faith. 
1Thessalonians3:11 Now may our Father God and our precious Lord Jesus guide our steps on a path straight back to you. 
1Thessalonians3:12 And may the Lord increase your love until it overflows toward one another and for all people, just as our love overflows toward you." 
1Thessalonians3:13 Then your hearts will be strengthened in holiness so that you may be flawless and pure before the face of our God and Father at the appearing of our Lord Jesus with all his holy ones. Amen! 
1Thessalonians4:1 And now, beloved brothers and sisters, since you have been mentored by us with respect to living for God and pleasing him, I appeal to you in the name of the Lord Jesus with this request: keep faithfully growing through our teachings even more and more." 
1Thessalonians4:2 For you already know the instructions we’ve shared with you through the Lord Jesus. 
1Thessalonians4:3 God’s will is for you to be set apart for him in holiness and that you keep yourselves unpolluted from sexual defilement. 
1Thessalonians4:4 Yes, each of you must guard your sexual purity with holiness and dignity," 
1Thessalonians4:5 not yielding to lustful passions like those who don’t know God. 
1Thessalonians4:6 Never take selfish advantage of a brother or sister in this matter, for we’ve already told you and solemnly warned you that the Lord is the avenger in all these things." 
1Thessalonians4:7 For God’s call on our lives is not to a life of compromise and perversion but to a life surrounded in holiness. 
1Thessalonians4:8 Therefore, whoever rejects this instruction isn’t rejecting human authority but God himself, who gives us his precious gift —his Spirit of holiness." 
1Thessalonians4:9 There’s no need for anyone to say much to you about loving your fellow believers, for God is continually teaching you to unselfishly love one another." 
1Thessalonians4:10 Indeed, your love is what you’re known for throughout Macedonia. We urge you, beloved ones, to let this unselfish love increase and flow through you more and more." 
1Thessalonians4:11 Aspire to lead a calm and peaceful life as you mind your own business and earn your living, just as we’ve taught you." 
1Thessalonians4:12 By doing this you will live an honorable life, influencing others and commanding respect of even the unbelievers. Then you’ll be in need of nothing and not dependent upon others." 
1Thessalonians4:13 Beloved brothers and sisters, we want you to be quite certain about the truth concerning those who have passed away, so that you won’t be overwhelmed with grief like many others who have no hope." 
1Thessalonians4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, we also believe that God will bring with Jesus those who died while believing in him." 
1Thessalonians4:15 This is the word of the Lord: we who are alive in him and remain until the Lord appears will by no means have an advantage over those who have already died, for both will rise together." 
1Thessalonians4:16 For the Lord himself will appear with the declaration of victory, the shout of an archangel, and the trumpet blast of God. He will descend from the heavenly realm and command those who are dead in Christ to rise first." 
1Thessalonians4:17 Then we who are alive will join them, transported together in clouds to have an encounter with the Lord in the air, and we will be forever joined with the Lord." 
1Thessalonians4:18 So encourage one another with these truths. 
1Thessalonians5:1 Now, beloved brothers and sisters, concerning the question of God’s precise times and specific seasons, you don’t need me to write anything to you." 
1Thessalonians5:2 For you already know quite well that the day of the Lord will come unexpectedly and as a complete surprise. 
1Thessalonians5:3 For while some are saying, “Finally we have peace and security,” sudden destruction will arrive at their doorstep, like labor pains seizing a pregnant woman—and with no chance of escape!" 
1Thessalonians5:4 But you, beloved brothers and sisters, are not living in the dark, allowing that day to creep up on you like a thief coming to steal." 
1Thessalonians5:5 For you are all children of the light and children of the day. We don’t belong to the night nor to darkness. 
1Thessalonians5:6 This is why we must not fall asleep, as the rest do, but keep wide awake and clearheaded." 
1Thessalonians5:7 For those who are asleep sleep the night away, and drunkards get drunk at night." 
1Thessalonians5:8 But since we belong to the day, we must stay alert and clearheaded by placing the breastplate of faith and love over our hearts, and a helmet of the hope of salvation over our thoughts." 
1Thessalonians5:9 For God has not destined us for wrath but to possess salvation through our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1Thessalonians5:10 He gave his life for us so that we may share in resurrection life in union with him—whether we’re awake or asleep. 
1Thessalonians5:11 Because of this, encourage the hearts of your fellow believers and support one another, just as you have already been doing." 
1Thessalonians5:12 Dear brothers and sisters, make sure that you show your deep appreciation for those who cherish you and diligently work as ministers among you. For they are your leaders who care for you, teach you, and stand before the Lord on your behalf." 
1Thessalonians5:13 They value you with great love. Because of their service to you, let peace reign among yourselves." 
1Thessalonians5:14 We appeal to you, dear brothers and sisters, to instruct those who are not in their place of battle. Be skilled at gently encouraging those who feel themselves inadequate. Be faithful to stand your ground. Help the weak to stand again. Be quick to demonstrate patience with everyone." 
1Thessalonians5:15 Resist revenge, and make sure that no one pays back evil in place of evil but always pursue doing what is beautiful to one another and to all the unbelievers." 
1Thessalonians5:16 Let joy be your continual feast. 
1Thessalonians5:17 Make your life a prayer. 
1Thessalonians5:18 And in the midst of everything be always giving thanks, for this is God’s perfect plan for you in Christ Jesus." 
1Thessalonians5:19 Never restrain or put out the fire of the Holy Spirit. 
1Thessalonians5:20 And don’t be one who scorns prophecies," 
1Thessalonians5:21 but be faithful to examine them by putting them to the test, and afterward hold tightly to what has proven to be right." 
1Thessalonians5:22 Avoid every appearance of evil. 
1Thessalonians5:23 Now, may the God of peace and harmony set you apart, making you completely holy. And may your entire being—spirit, soul, and body—be kept completely flawless in the appearing of our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1Thessalonians5:24 The one who calls you by name is trustworthy and will thoroughly complete his work in you. 
1Thessalonians5:25 Now, beloved ones, pray for us." 
1Thessalonians5:26 Greet every brother and sister with a sacred kiss. 
1Thessalonians5:27 I solemnly plead with you before the Lord to make sure that every holy believer among you has the opportunity to hear this letter read to them. 
1Thessalonians5:28 May grace from our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen! 
2Thessalonians1:1 From Paul, Silas, and Timothy. We send our greetings to you, the Thessalonian congregation of believers, which is in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians1:2 May God’s delightful grace and peace rest upon you. 
2Thessalonians1:3 We feel a personal responsibility to continually be thanking God for you, our spiritual family, every time we pray. And we have every reason to do so because your faith is growing marvelously beyond measure. The unselfish love each of you share for one another is increasing and overflowing!" 
2Thessalonians1:4 We point to you as an example of unwavering faith for all the churches of God. We boast about how you continue to demonstrate unflinching endurance through all the persecutions and painful trials you are experiencing. 
2Thessalonians1:5 All of this proves that God’s judgment is always perfect and is intended to make you worthy of inheriting the kingdom of God, which is why you are going through these troubles." 
2Thessalonians1:6 It is right and just for God to trouble your troublers 
2Thessalonians1:7 and give rest to the troubled, both to you and to us, at the unveiling of the Lord Jesus from heaven with his messengers of power" 
2Thessalonians1:8 within a flame of fire. He will bring perfect and full justice to those who don’t know God and on those who refuse to embrace the gospel of our Lord Jesus. 
2Thessalonians1:9 They will suffer the penalty of eternal destruction, banished from the Lord’s presence and from the manifestation of his glorious power." 
2Thessalonians1:10 This will happen on that day when he glorifies his holy ones, and they will be marveled at in all those who believed—including you, since in fact, you believed our message." 
2Thessalonians1:11 With this in mind, we constantly pray that our God will empower you to live worthy of all that he has invited you to experience. And we pray that by his power all the pleasures of goodness and all works inspired by faith would fill you completely." 
2Thessalonians1:12 By doing this the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you, and you will be glorified in him, by the marvelous grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:1 Now, regarding the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to him, we plead with you, beloved friends," 
2Thessalonians2:2 not to be easily confused or disturbed in your minds by any kind of spirit, rumor, or letter allegedly from us, claiming that the day of the Lord has already come." 
2Thessalonians2:3 Don’t let anyone deceive you in any way. Before that day comes the rebellion must occur and the “outlaw” —the destructive son—will be revealed in his true light. 
2Thessalonians2:4 He is the opposing counterpart who exalts himself over everything that is called “God” or is worshiped and who sits enthroned in God’s temple and makes himself out to be a god. 
2Thessalonians2:5 Don’t you remember that when I was with you I went over all these things? 
2Thessalonians2:6 Now you are aware of the ruling power so that he may be fully revealed when his time comes. 
2Thessalonians2:7 For the mystery of lawlessness is already active, but the one who prevails will do so until he is separated from out of the midst." 
2Thessalonians2:8 Then the “outlaw” will be openly revealed, and the Lord will overthrow him by the breath of his mouth and bring him to an end by the dazzling manifestation of his presence." 
2Thessalonians2:9 The presence of the “outlaw” is apparent by the activity of Satan, who uses all kinds of counterfeit miracles, signs, spurious wonders," 
2Thessalonians2:10 and every form of evil deception in order to deceive those who are perishing because they rejected the love of the truth that would lead them to being saved. 
2Thessalonians2:11 Because of this, God sends them a powerful delusion that leads them to believe what is false." 
2Thessalonians2:12 So then all who found their pleasure in unrighteousness and did not believe the truth will be judged. 
2Thessalonians2:13 We always have to thank God for you, brothers and sisters, for you are dearly loved by the Lord. He proved it by choosing you from the beginning for salvation through the Spirit, who set you apart for holiness, and through your belief in the truth." 
2Thessalonians2:14 To this end he handpicked you for salvation through the gospel so that you would have the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
2Thessalonians2:15 So then, dear family, stand firm with a masterful grip of the teachings we gave you, either by word of mouth or by our letter." 
2Thessalonians2:16 Now may the Lord Jesus Christ and our Father God, who loved us and in his wonderful grace gave us eternal comfort and a beautiful hope that cannot fail," 
2Thessalonians2:17 encourage your hearts and inspire you with strength to always do and speak what is good and beautiful in his eyes. 
2Thessalonians3:1 Finally, dear brothers and sisters, pray for us that the Lord’s message will continue to spread rapidly and its glory be recognized everywhere, just as it was with you." 
2Thessalonians3:2 And pray that God will rescue us from wicked and evil people, for not everyone believes the message." 
2Thessalonians3:3 But the Lord Yahweh is always faithful to place you on a firm foundation and guard you from the Evil One. 
2Thessalonians3:4 We have complete confidence in the Lord concerning you and we are sure that you are doing and will continue to do what we have told you. 
2Thessalonians3:5 Now may the Lord move your hearts into a greater understanding of God’s pure love for you and into Christ’s steadfast endurance. 
2Thessalonians3:6 Beloved brothers and sisters, we instruct you, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to stay away from believers who are unruly and who stray from all that we have taught you." 
2Thessalonians3:7 For you know very well that you should order your lives after our example, because we were not undisciplined when we were with you." 
2Thessalonians3:8 We didn’t sponge off of you, but we worked hard night and day to provide our own food and lodging and not be a burden to any of you." 
2Thessalonians3:9 It wasn’t because we don’t have the right to be supported, but we wanted to provide you an example to follow." 
2Thessalonians3:10 For when we were with you we instructed you with these words: “Anyone who does not want to work for a living should go hungry.” 
2Thessalonians3:11 Now, we hear rumors that some of you are being lazy and neglecting to work—that these people are not busy but busybodies!" 
2Thessalonians3:12 So with the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, we order them to go back to work in an orderly fashion and exhort them to earn their own living." 
2Thessalonians3:13 Brothers and sisters, don’t ever grow weary in doing what is right." 
2Thessalonians3:14 Take special note of anyone who won’t obey what we have written and stay away from them, so that they would be ashamed and get turned around." 
2Thessalonians3:15 Yet don’t regard them as enemies, but caution them as fellow believers." 
2Thessalonians3:16 Now, may the Lord himself, the Lord of peace, pour into you his peace in every circumstance and in every possible way. The Lord’s tangible presence be with you all." 
2Thessalonians3:17 So now, in my own handwriting, I add these words: Loving greetings to each of you. And may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Paul The above is my signature and the token of authenticity in every letter I write." 
2Thessalonians3:18  
1Timothy1:1 From Paul, an apostle in Christ Jesus, for it was Jesus himself, our living hope, who sent me as his servant by the command of God, our life-giver." 
1Timothy1:2 Timothy, you are my true spiritual son in the faith. May abundant grace, mercy, and total well-being from God the Father and the Anointed One, our Lord Jesus, be yours!" 
1Timothy1:3 As I urged you when I left for Macedonia, I’m asking that you remain in Ephesus to instruct them not to teach or follow the error of deceptive doctrines," 
1Timothy1:4 nor pay any attention to cultural myths, traditions, or the endless study of genealogies. Those digressions only breed controversies and debates. They are devoid of power that builds up and strengthens the church in the faith of God." 
1Timothy1:5 For we reach the goal of fulfilling all the commandments when we love others deeply with a pure heart, a clean conscience, and sincere faith." 
1Timothy1:6 Some believers have been led astray by teachings and speculations that emphasize nothing more than the empty words of men. 
1Timothy1:7 They presume to be expert teachers of the law, but they don’t have the slightest idea of what they’re talking about and they simply love to argue!" 
1Timothy1:8 We know that the moral code of the law is beautiful when applied as God intended," 
1Timothy1:9 but actually, the law was not established for righteous people, but to bring conviction of sin to the unrighteous. The law was established to bring the revelation of sin to the evildoers and rebellious, the sinners without God, those who are vicious and perverse, and to those who strike their father or their mother, sinners, murderers," 
1Timothy1:10 rapists, those who are sexually impure, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, those who break their oaths, and all those who oppose the teaching of godliness and purity in the church! They are the ones the law is for." 
1Timothy1:11 I have been commissioned to preach the wonderful news of the glory of the exalted God. 
1Timothy1:12 My heart spills over with thanks to God for the way he continually empowers me, and to our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, who found me trustworthy and who authorized me to be his partner in this ministry." 
1Timothy1:13 Mercy kissed me, even though I used to be a blasphemer, a persecutor of believers, and a scorner of what turned out to be true. I was ignorant and didn’t know what I was doing." 
1Timothy1:14 I was flooded with such incredible grace, like a river overflowing its banks, until I was full of faith and love for Jesus, the Anointed One!" 
1Timothy1:15 I can testify that the Word is true and deserves to be received by all, for Jesus Christ came into the world to bring sinners back to life—even me, the worst sinner of all!" 
1Timothy1:16 Yet I was captured by grace, so that Jesus Christ could display through me the outpouring of his Spirit as a pattern to be seen for all those who would believe in him for eternal life." 
1Timothy1:17 Because of this my praises rise to the King of all the universe who is indestructible, invisible, and full of glory, the only God who is worthy of the highest honors throughout all of time and throughout the eternity of eternities! Amen!" 
1Timothy1:18 So Timothy, my son, I am entrusting you with this responsibility, in keeping with the very first prophecies that were spoken over your life, and are now in the process of fulfillment in this great work of ministry, in keeping with the prophecies spoken over you. With this encouragement use your prophecies as weapons as you wage spiritual warfare by faith and with a clean conscience. For there are many who reject these virtues and are now destitute of the true faith," 
1Timothy1:19  
1Timothy1:20 such as Hymenaeus and Alexander who have fallen away. I have delivered them both over to Satan to be rid of them and to teach them to no longer blaspheme! 
1Timothy2:1 Most of all, I’m writing to encourage you to pray with gratitude to God. Pray for all men with all forms of prayers and requests as you intercede with intense passion." 
1Timothy2:2 And pray for every political leader and representative, so that we would be able to live tranquil, undisturbed lives, as we worship the awe-inspiring God with pure hearts." 
1Timothy2:3 It is pleasing to our Savior-God to pray for them. 
1Timothy2:4 He longs for everyone to embrace his life and return to the full knowledge of the truth. 
1Timothy2:5 For God is one, and there is one Mediator between God and the sons of men—the true man, Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1Timothy2:6 He gave himself as ransom-payment for everyone. Now is the proper time for God to give the world this witness. 
1Timothy2:7 I have been divinely called as an apostle to preach this revelation, which is the truth. God has called me to be a trustworthy teacher to the nations." 
1Timothy2:8 Therefore, I encourage the men to pray on every occasion with hands lifted to God in worship with clean hearts, free from frustration or strife." 
1Timothy2:9 And that the women would also pray with clean hearts, dressed appropriately and adorned modestly and sensibly, not flaunting their wealth." 
1Timothy2:10 But they should be recognized instead by their beautiful deeds of kindness, suitable as one who worships God." 
1Timothy2:11 Let the women who are new converts be willing to learn with all submission to their leaders and not speak out of turn. 
1Timothy2:12 I don’t advocate that the newly converted women be the teachers in the church, assuming authority over the men, but to live in peace." 
1Timothy2:13 For God formed Adam first, then Eve." 
1Timothy2:14 Adam did not mislead Eve, but Eve misled him and violated the command of God." 
1Timothy2:15 Yet salvation will come through a child born by a woman, and women will be saved by that “child” if they continue in faith with love, holiness, and self-control." 
1Timothy3:1 If any of you aspires to be an overseer in the church; you have set your heart toward a noble ambition, for the word is true!" 
1Timothy3:2 Yet an elder needs to be one who is without blame before others. He should be one whose heart is for his wife alone and not another woman. He should be recognized as one who is sensible, and well-behaved, and living a disciplined life. He should be a “spiritual shepherd” who has the gift of teaching, and is known for his hospitality." 
1Timothy3:3 He cannot be a drunkard, or someone who lashes out at others, or argumentative, or someone who simply craves more money, but instead, recognized by his gentleness." 
1Timothy3:4 His heart should be set on guiding his household with wisdom and dignity; bringing up his children to worship with devotion and purity. 
1Timothy3:5 For if he’s unable to properly lead his own household well, how could he properly lead God’s household?" 
1Timothy3:6 He should not be a new disciple who would be vulnerable to living in the clouds of conceit and fall into pride, making him easy prey for Satan." 
1Timothy3:7 He should be respected by those who are unbelievers, having a beautiful testimony among them so that he will not fall into the traps of Satan and be disgraced." 
1Timothy3:8 And in the same way the deacons must be those who are pure and true to their word, not addicted to wine, or with greedy eyes on the contributions." 
1Timothy3:9 Instead, they must faithfully embrace the mysteries of faith while keeping a clean conscience." 
1Timothy3:10 And each of them must be found trustworthy according to these standards before they are given the responsibility to minister as servant-leaders without blame. 
1Timothy3:11 And the women also who serve the church should be dignified, faithful in all things, having their thoughts set on truth, and not known as those who gossip." 
1Timothy3:12 A deacon’s heart must be toward his wife alone, leading his children and household with excellence." 
1Timothy3:13 For those who serve in this way will obtain an honorable reputation for themselves and a greater right to speak boldly in the faith that comes from Jesus Christ! 
1Timothy3:14 I’m writing all this with the expectation of seeing you soon. 
1Timothy3:15 But if I’m delayed in coming, you’ll already have these instructions on how to conduct the affairs of the church of the living God, his very household and the supporting pillar and firm foundation of the truth." 
1Timothy3:16 For the mystery of righteousness is beyond all question! He was revealed as a human being, and as our great High Priest in the Spirit! Angels gazed upon him as a man and the glorious message of his kingly rulership is being preached to the nations! Many have believed in him and he has been taken back to heaven, and has ascended into the place of exalted glory in the heavenly realm. Yes, great is this mystery of righteousness!" 
1Timothy4:1 The Holy Spirit has explicitly revealed: At the end of this age, many will depart from the true faith one after another, devoting themselves to spirits of deception and following demon-inspired revelations and theories." 
1Timothy4:2 Hypocritical liars will deceive many, and their consciences won’t bother them at all!" 
1Timothy4:3 They will require celibacy and dietary restrictions that God doesn’t expect, for he created all foods to be received with the celebration of faith by those who fully know the truth." 
1Timothy4:4 We know that all creation is beautiful to God and there is nothing to be refused if it is received with gratitude. 
1Timothy4:5 All that we eat is made sacred by the Word of God and prayer. 
1Timothy4:6 If you will teach the believers these things, you will be known as a faithful and good minister of Jesus, the Anointed One. Nurture others in the living words of faith and in the knowledge of grace which you were taught." 
1Timothy4:7 Be quick to abstain from senseless traditions and legends, but instead be engaged in the training of truth that brings righteousness." 
1Timothy4:8 For athletic training only benefits you for a short season, but righteousness brings lasting benefit in everything; for righteousness contains the promise of life, for time and eternity." 
1Timothy4:9 Faithful is the Word, and everyone should accept him!" 
1Timothy4:10 For the sake of this ministry, we toil tirelessly and are criticized continually, simply because our hope is in the living God. He is the wonderful life-giver of all the children of men, and even more so to those who believe." 
1Timothy4:11 Instruct and teach the people all that I’ve taught you. 
1Timothy4:12 And don’t be intimidated by those who are older than you; simply be the example they need to see by being faithful and true in all that you do. Speak the truth and live a life of purity and authentic love as you remain strong in your faith. 
1Timothy4:13 So until I come, be diligent in devouring the Word of God, be faithful in prayer, and in teaching the believers." 
1Timothy4:14 Don’t minimize the powerful gift that operates in your life, for it was imparted to you by the laying on of hands of the elders and was activated through the prophecy they spoke over you." 
1Timothy4:15 Make all of this your constant meditation and make it real with your life so everyone can see that you are moving forward. 
1Timothy4:16 Give careful attention to your spiritual life and every cherished truth you teach, for living what you preach will release salvation inside you and to all those who listen to you." 
1Timothy5:1 Don’t be harsh or verbally abusive to an older man; it is better to appeal to him as a father. And as you minister to the younger men it is best to encourage them as your dear brothers. 
1Timothy5:2 Honor the older women as mothers, and the younger women, treat as your dear sisters with utmost purity." 
1Timothy5:3 The church needs to honor and support the widows, especially those who are in dire need." 
1Timothy5:4 But if they have children or grandchildren at home, then it is only proper to let them provide for the ones who raised them when they were children, for kindness begins at home and it pleases God." 
1Timothy5:5 For the true widow is all alone and has placed her complete hope in God. She is Messiah’s missionary and will need the support of the church as one who remains in prayer day and night. 
1Timothy5:6 But the widow who serves only herself lives a life of self-indulgence and is wasting her life away. 
1Timothy5:7 Be sure to give clear instruction concerning these matters so that none of them will live with shame. 
1Timothy5:8 For if a believer fails to provide for their own relatives when they are in need, they have compromised their convictions of faith and need to be corrected, for they are living worse than the unbelievers." 
1Timothy5:9 The widows who are worthy to be supported by the church should be at least sixty years old and not remarried. 
1Timothy5:10 They should have a beautiful testimony of raising their families, practicing hospitality, encouraging other believers, comforting troubled ones, and have a reputation for doing good works." 
1Timothy5:11 But you need not concern yourself with the younger widows, for some will depart from the Messiah because of their desire to remarry." 
1Timothy5:12 For they will face their own punishment of living with a disturbed conscience for invalidating their former faith. 
1Timothy5:13 Those widows who go around from house to house as busybodies are only learning to be lazy, making their situation even worse by talking too much, gossiping, and speaking things they shouldn’t. They become far too obsessed with empty things that will not bear good fruit." 
1Timothy5:14 For this reason, teach the younger women to remarry and bear children and care for their household. This will keep them from giving our adversary a reason to gloat." 
1Timothy5:15 For there are already those who have begun to turn aside from their faith and are influenced by Satan. 
1Timothy5:16 So if any believer has a widow in their family, instruct them to support her financially so that the church will not be burdened with her care. This will leave finances available for those widows who are truly in need." 
1Timothy5:17 The pastors who lead the church well should be paid well. They should receive double honor for faithfully preaching and teaching the revelation of the Word of God. 
1Timothy5:18 For the Scriptures have taught us: “Do not muzzle an ox or forbid it to eat while it grinds the grain.” And also, “The one who labors deserves his wages.”" 
1Timothy5:19 Refuse to listen to suspicious accusations against the pastors who lead the flock unless you have two or three witnesses to confirm the accusations. 
1Timothy5:20 But if indeed you find that they have sinned, bring correction to them before the congregation so that the rest of the people will respect you." 
1Timothy5:21 Timothy, in the presence of God and our Lord Jesus Christ, and before the chosen messengers, I solemnly charge you to put into practice all these matters without bias, prejudice, or favoritism." 
1Timothy5:22 Don’t be hasty to ordain them with the laying on of hands, or you may end up sharing in their guilt should they fall. Keep yourself pure and holy with your standards high." 
1Timothy5:23 (If drinking the water causes you to have stomach ailments, drink some wine instead.)" 
1Timothy5:24 The sins of some people stand out and are well known. Yet there are others whose sins are not as obvious, but the truth of who they really are will eventually be seen and will bring them judgment." 
1Timothy5:25 It is the same way with good works, even if they are not known at first, they will eventually be recognized and acknowledged." 
1Timothy6:1 Instruct every employee to respect and honor their employers, for this attitude presents to them a clear testimony of God’s truth and renown. Tell them to never provide them with a reason to discredit God’s name because of their actions." 
1Timothy6:2 Especially honor and respect employers who are believers and don’t despise them, but serve them even more, for they are fellow believers. They should be at peace with them as beloved members of God’s family. Be faithful to teach them these things as their sacred obligation." 
1Timothy6:3 But if anyone spreads false teaching that does not agree with the healthy instruction of our Lord Jesus, teaching others that holy awe of God is not important, then they prove they know nothing at all! It’s obvious they don’t value or hold dear the healing words of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Timothy6:4 They are covered with the clouds of conceit. They are loaded with controversy, and they love to argue their opinions and split hairs. The fruit of their ministry is contention, competition, and evil suspicions." 
1Timothy6:5 They add misery to many lives by corrupting their minds and cheating them of the truth. They equate the worship of God with making great sums of money. 
1Timothy6:6 We have a “profit” that is greater than theirs—our holy awe of God! To have merely our necessities is to have enough. 
1Timothy6:7 Isn’t it true that our hands were empty when we came into the world, and when we leave this world our hands will be empty again?" 
1Timothy6:8 Because of this, food and clothing is enough to make us content." 
1Timothy6:9 But those who crave the wealth of this world slip into spiritual snares. They become trapped by the troubles that come through their foolish and harmful desires, driven by greed and drowning in their own sinful pleasures. And they take others down with them into their corruption and eventual destruction." 
1Timothy6:10 Loving money is a root of all evils. Some people run after it so much that they have given up their faith. Craving more money pushes them away from the faith into error, compounding misery in their lives!" 
1Timothy6:11 Timothy, you are God’s man, so run from all these errors. Instead, chase after true holiness, justice, faithfulness, love, hope, and tender humility." 
1Timothy6:12 So fight with faith for the winner’s prize! Lay your hands upon eternal life, to which you were called and about which you made the good confession before the multitude of witnesses!" 
1Timothy6:13 So now, I instruct you before the God of resurrection life and before Jesus, the Anointed One, who demonstrated a beautiful testimony even before Pontius Pilate," 
1Timothy6:14 that you follow this commission faithfully with a clear conscience and without blemish until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
1Timothy6:15 Yes, God will make his appearing in his own divine timing, for he is the exalted God, the only powerful One, the King over every king, and the Lord of power!" 
1Timothy6:16 He alone is the immortal God, living in the unapproachable light of divine glory! No one has ever seen his fullness, nor can they, for all the glory and endless authority of the universe belongs to him, forever and ever. Amen!" 
1Timothy6:17 To all the rich of this world, I command you not to be wrapped in thoughts of pride over your prosperity, or rely on your wealth, for your riches are unreliable and nothing compared to the living God. Trust instead in the one who lavishes upon us all good things, fulfilling our every need." 
1Timothy6:18 Remind the wealthy to be rich in remarkable works of extravagant generosity, willing to share with others." 
1Timothy6:19 These spiritual investments will provide a beautiful foundation for their lives and secure for them a great future, as they lay their hands upon the meaning of true life." 
1Timothy6:20 So, my son Timothy, don’t forget all that has been deposited within you. Escape from the empty echoes of men and the perversion of twisted reasoning." 
1Timothy6:21 For those who claim to possess this so-called knowledge have already wandered from the true faith. May God’s grace empower you always! Love in Christ, Paul" 
2Timothy1:1 From Paul, an apostle of Jesus the Messiah, appointed by God’s pleasure to announce the wonderful promise of life found in Jesus, the anointed Messiah." 
2Timothy1:2 My beloved son, I pray for a greater release of God’s grace, love, and total well-being to flow into your life from God our Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ!" 
2Timothy1:3 You know that I’ve been called to serve the God of my fathers with a clean conscience. Night and day I pray constantly for you, building a memorial for you with my prayers." 
2Timothy1:4 I know that you have wept for me, your spiritual father, and your tears are dear to me. I can’t wait to see you again! I’m filled with joy" 
2Timothy1:5 as I think of your strong faith that was passed down through your family line. It began with your grandmother Lois, who passed it on to your dear mother, Eunice. And it’s clear that you too are following in the footsteps of their godly example." 
2Timothy1:6 I’m writing to encourage you to fan into a flame and rekindle the fire of the spiritual gift God imparted to you when I laid my hands upon you. 
2Timothy1:7 For God will never give you the spirit of fear, but the Holy Spirit who gives you mighty power, love, and self-control." 
2Timothy1:8 So never be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor be embarrassed over my imprisonment, but overcome every evil by the revelation of the power of God!" 
2Timothy1:9 He gave us resurrection life and drew us to himself by his holy calling on our lives. And it wasn’t because of any good we have done, but by his divine pleasure and marvelous grace that confirmed our union with the anointed Jesus, even before time began!" 
2Timothy1:10 This truth is now being unveiled by the revelation of the anointed Jesus, our life-giver, who has dismantled death, obliterating all its effects on our lives, and has manifested his immortal life in us by the gospel." 
2Timothy1:11 And he has anointed me as his preacher, his apostle, and his teacher of truth to the nations." 
2Timothy1:12 The confidence of my calling enables me to overcome every difficulty without shame, for I have an intimate revelation of this God. And my faith in him convinces me that he is more than able to keep all that I’ve placed in his hands safe and secure until the fullness of his appearing." 
2Timothy1:13 Allow the healing words you’ve heard from me to live in you and make them a model for life as your faith and love for the Anointed One grows even more. 
2Timothy1:14 Guard well this incomparable treasure by the Spirit of Holiness living within you. 
2Timothy1:15 Perhaps you’ve heard that Phygelus, and Hermogenes and all the believers of Asia have deserted me because of my imprisonment." 
2Timothy1:16 Nevertheless, so many times Onesiphorus was like a breath of fresh air to me and never seemed to be ashamed of my chains. May our Lord Jesus bestow compassion and mercy upon him and his household." 
2Timothy1:17 For when he arrived in Rome, he searched and searched for me until he found out where I was being held, so that he could minister to me," 
2Timothy1:18 just like he did so wonderfully as I rested in his house while in Ephesus, as you well know. May Jesus, our Master, give him abundant mercy in the day he stands before him." 
2Timothy2:1 Timothy, my dear son, live your life empowered by God’s free-flowing grace, which is your true strength, found in the anointing of Jesus and your union with him!" 
2Timothy2:2 And all that you’ve learned from me, confirmed by the integrity of my life, deposit into faithful leaders who are competent to teach the congregations the same revelation." 
2Timothy2:3 Overcome every form of evil as a victorious soldier of Jesus the Anointed One. 
2Timothy2:4 For every soldier called to active duty must divorce himself from the distractions of this world so that he may fully satisfy the one who chose him. 
2Timothy2:5 An athlete who doesn’t play by the rules will never receive the trophy, so remain faithful to God!" 
2Timothy2:6 The farmer who labors to produce a crop should be the first one to be fed from its harvest. 
2Timothy2:7 Carefully consider all that I’ve taught you, and may our Lord inspire you with wisdom and revelation in everything you say and do." 
2Timothy2:8 But make Jesus, the Anointed One, your focus in life and ministry. For he came to earth as the descendant of David and rose from the dead, according to the revelation of the gospel that God has given me." 
2Timothy2:9 This is the reason I am persecuted and imprisoned by evildoers, enduring the suffering of these chains—but the Word of God can never be chained!" 
2Timothy2:10 I endure all these hardships for the benefit of the chosen ones in Christ so that they may also discover the overcoming life that is in Jesus Christ, and experience a glory that lasts forever!" 
2Timothy2:11 You can trust these words: If we were joined with him in his death, then we are joined with him in his life!" 
2Timothy2:12 If we are joined with him in his sufferings, then we will reign together with him in his triumph. But if we disregard him, then he will also disregard us." 
2Timothy2:13 But even if we are faithless, he will still be full of faith, for he never wavers in his faithfulness to us!" 
2Timothy2:14 Be committed to teach the believers all these things when you are with them in the presence of the Lord. Instruct them to never be drawn into meaningless arguments, or tear each other down with useless words that only harm others." 
2Timothy2:15 Always be eager to present yourself before God as a perfect and mature minister, without shame, as one who correctly explains the Word of Truth." 
2Timothy2:16 And avoid empty chatter and worthless words, for they simply add to the irreverence of those who converse in that manner." 
2Timothy2:17 For the words of Hymenaeus and Philetus are like gangrene, they have already spread their poison to many." 
2Timothy2:18 They are lost to the truth and teach gross error when they teach that the resurrection of the dead has already passed. They are guilty of subverting the faith of some believers. 
2Timothy2:19 But the firm foundation of God has written upon it these two inscriptions: “The Lord God recognizes those who are truly his!” and, “Everyone who worships the name of the Lord Jesus must forsake wickedness!”" 
2Timothy2:20 In a palace you find many kinds of containers and tableware for many different uses. Some are beautifully inlaid with gold or silver, but some are made of wood or earthenware; some of them are used for banquets and special occasions, and some for everyday use." 
2Timothy2:21 But you, Timothy, must not see your life and ministry this way. Your life and ministry must not be disgraced, for you are to be a pure container of Christ and dedicated to the honorable purposes of your Master, prepared for every good work that he gives you to do." 
2Timothy2:22 Run as fast as you can from all the ambitions and lusts of youth; and chase after all that is pure. Whatever builds up your faith and deepens your love must become your holy pursuit. And live in peace with all those who worship our Lord Jesus with pure hearts. 
2Timothy2:23 Stay away from all the foolish arguments of the immature, for these disputes will only generate more conflict." 
2Timothy2:24 For a true servant of our Lord Jesus will not be argumentative but gentle toward all and skilled in helping others see the truth, having great patience toward the immature." 
2Timothy2:25 Then with meekness you’ll be able to carefully enlighten those who argue with you so they can see God’s gracious gift of repentance and be brought to the truth. 
2Timothy2:26 This will cause them to rediscover themselves and escape from the snare of Satan who caught them in his trap so that they would carry out his purposes. 
2Timothy3:1 But you need to be aware that in the final days the culture of society will become extremely fierce. 
2Timothy3:2 People will be self-centered lovers of themselves and obsessed with money. They will boast of great things as they strut around in their arrogant pride and mock all that is right. They will ignore their own families. They will be ungrateful and ungodly. 
2Timothy3:3 They will become addicted to hateful and malicious slander. Slaves to their desires, they will be ferocious, belligerent haters of what is good and right." 
2Timothy3:4 With brutal treachery, they will act without restraint, bigoted and wrapped in clouds of their conceit. They will find their delight in the pleasures of this world more than the pleasures of the loving God." 
2Timothy3:5 They may pretend to have a respect for God, but in reality they want nothing to do with God’s power. Stay away from people like these!" 
2Timothy3:6 For they are the ones who worm their way into the hearts of vulnerable women, spending the night with those who are captured by their lusts and steeped in sin." 
2Timothy3:7 They are always learning but never discover the revelation-knowledge of truth. 
2Timothy3:8 History has given us an example of this with the Egyptian sorcerers Jannes and Jambres, who stood against Moses in their arrogance. So it will be in the last days with those who reject the faith with their corrupt minds and arrogant hearts, standing against the truth of God." 
2Timothy3:9 But they will not advance, for everyone will see their madness, just as they did with Jannes and Jambres!" 
2Timothy3:10 But you, Timothy, have closely followed my example and the truth that I’ve imparted to you. You have modeled your life after the love and endurance I’ve demonstrated in my ministry by not giving up. The faith I have, you now have. What I have hungered for in life has now become your longing as well. The patience I have with others, you now demonstrate." 
2Timothy3:11 And the same persecutions and difficulties I have endured, you have also endured. Yes, you know all about what I had to suffer while in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. You’re aware of all the persecution I endured there; yet the Lord delivered me from every single one of them!" 
2Timothy3:12 For all who choose to live godly as worshipers of Jesus, the Anointed One, will also experience persecution." 
2Timothy3:13 But the evil men and sorcerers will progress from bad to worse, deceived and deceiving, as they lead people further from the truth." 
2Timothy3:14 Yet you must continue to advance in strength with the truth wrapped around your heart, being assured by God that he’s the One who has truly taught you all these things." 
2Timothy3:15 Remember what you were taught from your childhood from the Holy Scrolls which can impart to you wisdom to experience everlasting life through the faith of Jesus, the Anointed One!" 
2Timothy3:16 God has transmitted his very substance into every Scripture, for it is God-breathed. It will empower you by its instruction and correction, giving you the strength to take the right direction and lead you deeper into the path of godliness." 
2Timothy3:17 Then you will be God’s servant, fully mature and perfectly prepared to fulfill any assignment God gives you." 
2Timothy4:1 Timothy, in the presence of our great God and our Lord Jesus Christ, the One who is destined to judge both the living and the dead by the revelation of his kingdom—I solemnly instruct you to" 
2Timothy4:2 proclaim the Word of God and stand upon it no matter what! Rise to the occasion and preach when it is convenient and when it is not. Preach in the full expression of the Holy Spirit —with wisdom and patience as you instruct and teach the people. 
2Timothy4:3 For the time is coming when they will no longer listen and respond to the healing words of truth because they will become selfish and proud. They will seek out teachers with soothing words that line up with their desires, saying just what they want to hear." 
2Timothy4:4 They will close their ears to the truth and believe nothing but fables and myths. 
2Timothy4:5 So be alert to all these things and overcome every form of evil. Carry in your heart the passion of your calling as a church planter and evangelist, and fulfill your ministry calling." 
2Timothy4:6 And now the time is fast approaching for my release from this life and I am ready to be offered as a sacrifice. 
2Timothy4:7 I have fought an excellent fight. I have finished my full course with all my might and I’ve kept my heart full of faith. 
2Timothy4:8 There’s a crown of righteousness waiting in heaven for me, and I know that my Lord will reward me on his day of righteous judgment. And this crown is not only waiting for me, but for all who love and long for his unveiling." 
2Timothy4:9 Please come as soon as you can 
2Timothy4:10 since Demas deserted me and has left to go to Thessalonica, for he loves his own life. Crescens has gone to Galatia, and Titus has gone to Dalmatia." 
2Timothy4:10 since Demas deserted me and has left to go to Thessalonica, for he loves his own life. Crescens has gone to Galatia, and Titus has gone to Dalmatia." 
2Timothy4:11 That leaves only Luke with me, so find Mark and bring him with you, for he is a tremendous help for me in my ministry." 
2Timothy4:11 That leaves only Luke with me, so find Mark and bring him with you, for he is a tremendous help for me in my ministry." 
2Timothy4:11 That leaves only Luke with me, so find Mark and bring him with you, for he is a tremendous help for me in my ministry." 
2Timothy4:12 I have also dispatched Tychicus to Ephesus to minister there. 
2Timothy4:13 When you come, please bring the leather book bag along with the books I left in Troas with Carpus—especially the parchment scrolls." 
2Timothy4:14 You need to know that Alexander, the jeweler, has done me great harm. May our Lord give him what he deserves for all he has done." 
2Timothy4:15 Be careful of him, for he arrogantly opposes our ministry." 
2Timothy4:16 At first there was no one I could count on to faithfully stand with me—they all ran off and abandoned me—but don’t hold this against them. 
2Timothy4:17 For in spite of this, my Lord himself stood with me, empowering me to complete my ministry of preaching to all the non-Jewish nations so they all could hear the message and be delivered from the mouth of the lion!" 
2Timothy4:18 And my Lord will continue to deliver me from every form of evil and give me life in his heavenly kingdom. May all the glory go to him alone for all the ages of eternity! 
2Timothy4:19 Please give my warm regards to Prisca and to Aquila and to Onesiphorus and his family. 
2Timothy4:20 Erastus has remained in Corinth, but Trophimus I had to leave in Miletus due to his illness." 
2Timothy4:21 Do your best to come before winter. Eubulus sends his greetings, along with Pudens, Linus, and Claudia, and all those in prison with me." 
2Timothy4:22 The Lord is within your spirit and his grace overflows to you! Love in Christ, Paul" 
Titus1:1 From Paul, God’s willing slave and an apostle of Jesus, the Anointed One, to Titus. I’m writing to you to further the faith of God’s chosen ones and lead them to the full knowledge of the truth that leads to godliness," 
Titus1:2 which rests on the hope of eternal life. God, who never lies, has promised this before time began." 
Titus1:3 In his own time he unveiled his word through the preaching of the gospel, which was entrusted to me by the command of God our Life Giver." 
Titus1:4 Titus, you are my true son in the faith we share. May grace and peace descend to you from God the Father and our Savior, the Anointed One, Jesus!" 
Titus1:5 The reason I stationed you in Crete was so that you could set things in order and complete what was left unfinished, and to raise up and appoint church elders in every city, just as I had instructed you." 
Titus1:6 Each of them must be above reproach, devoted solely to his wife, whose children are believers and not rebellious or out of control." 
Titus1:7 The overseer, since he serves God’s household, must be someone of blameless character and not be opinionated or short-tempered. He must not be a drunkard or violent or greedy." 
Titus1:8 Instead he should be one who is known for his hospitality and a lover of goodness. He should be recognized as one who is fair-minded, pure-hearted, and self-controlled." 
Titus1:9 He must have a firm grasp of the trustworthy message that he has been taught. This will enable him to both encourage others with healthy teachings and provide convincing answers to those who oppose his message. 
Titus1:10 There are many wayward people, smooth talkers, and deceivers—especially the converts from Judaism." 
Titus1:11 They must be silenced because they are disrupting entire families with their corrupt teachings, all for their dishonest greed." 
Titus1:12 A certain one of them, one of their own prophets, said, “Those Cretans are nothing but liars, worthless beasts, and lazy gluttons.”" 
Titus1:13 He certainly knew what he was talking about! For this reason, correct them thoroughly so that their lives will line up with the truths of our faith." 
Titus1:14 Instruct them not to pay any attention to Jewish myths or follow the teachings of those who reject the truth. 
Titus1:15 It’s true that all is pure to those who have pure hearts, but to the corrupt unbelievers nothing is pure. Their minds and consciences are defiled." 
Titus1:16 They claim to know God, but by their actions they deny him. They are disgusting, disobedient, and disqualified from doing anything good." 
Titus2:1 Your duty is to teach them to embrace a lifestyle that is consistent with sound doctrine. 
Titus2:2 Lead the male elders into disciplined lives full of dignity and self-control. Urge them to have a solid faith, generous love, and patient endurance." 
Titus2:3 Likewise with the female elders, lead them into lives free from gossip and drunkenness and to be teachers of beautiful things." 
Titus2:4 This will enable them to teach the younger women to love their husbands, to love their children," 
Titus2:5 and to be self-controlled and pure, taking care of their household and being devoted to their husbands. By doing these things the word of God will not be discredited." 
Titus2:6 Likewise, guide the younger men into living disciplined lives for Christ." 
Titus2:7 Above all, set yourself apart as a model of a life nobly lived. With dignity, demonstrate integrity in all that you teach." 
Titus2:8 Bring a clear, wholesome message that cannot be condemned, and then your critics will be embarrassed, with nothing bad to say about us." 
Titus2:9 Servants are to be supportive of their masters and do what is pleasing in every way. They are not to be argumentative 
Titus2:10 nor steal but prove themselves to be completely loyal and trustworthy. By doing this they will advertise through all that they do the beautiful teachings of God our Savior. 
Titus2:11 God’s marvelous grace has manifested in person, bringing salvation for everyone." 
Titus2:12 This same grace teaches us how to live each day as we turn our backs on ungodliness and indulgent lifestyles, and it equips us to live self-controlled, upright, godly lives in this present age." 
Titus2:13 For we continue to wait for the fulfillment of our hope in the dawning splendor of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Titus2:14 He sacrificed himself for us that he might purchase our freedom from every lawless deed and to purify for himself a people who are his very own, passionate to do what is beautiful in his eyes." 
Titus2:15 So preach these truths and exhort others to follow them. Be willing to expose sin in order to bring correction with full authority, without being intimidated by anyone." 
Titus3:1 Remind people to respect their governmental leaders on every level as law-abiding citizens and to be ready to fulfill their civic duty. 
Titus3:2 And remind them to never tear down anyone with their words or quarrel, but instead be considerate, humble, and courteous to everyone." 
Titus3:3 For it wasn’t that long ago that we behaved foolishly in our stubborn disobedience. We were easily led astray as slaves to worldly passions and pleasures. We wasted our lives in doing evil, and with hateful jealousy we hated others." 
Titus3:4 When the extraordinary compassion of God our Savior and his overpowering love suddenly appeared in person, as the brightness of a dawning day," 
Titus3:5 he came to save us. Not because of any virtuous deed that we have done but only because of his extravagant mercy. 
Titus3:6 He saved us, resurrecting us through the washing of rebirth. We are made completely new by the Holy Spirit, whom he splashed over us richly by Jesus, the Messiah, our Life Giver." 
Titus3:7 So as a gift of his love, and since we are faultless— innocent before his face— we can now become heirs of all things, all because of an overflowing hope of eternal life." 
Titus3:8 How true and faithful is this message! I want you to especially emphasize these truths, so that those who believe in God will be careful to devote themselves to doing good works. It is always beautiful and profitable for believers to do good works." 
Titus3:9 But avoid useless controversies, genealogies, pointless quarrels, and arguments over the law, which will get you nowhere." 
Titus3:10 After a first and second warning, have nothing more to do with a divisive person who refuses to be corrected." 
Titus3:11 For you know that such a one is entwined with his sin and stands self-condemned. 
Titus3:12 When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, be sure to meet me at the City of Victory, for I’ve decided to spend the winter there." 
Titus3:13 Give a generous send-off to Zenas the scribe and Apollos, and send them on their journey with what they need." 
Titus3:14 Encourage the believers to be passionately devoted to beautiful works of righteousness by meeting the urgent needs of others and not be unfruitful. 
Titus3:15 Everyone here with me sends their loving greetings to you. Greet the believers who love us in the faith. May God’s wonderful grace be with you all! Love in Christ, Paul" 
Philemon1:1 From Paul, a prisoner of the Anointed One, Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our precious friend and companion in this work." 
Philemon1:2 To the church that meets in his house, along with our dear sister Apphia and our fellow soldier Archippus." 
Philemon1:3 May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ pour out his grace and peace upon you. 
Philemon1:4 I am always thankful to my God as I remember you in my prayers 
Philemon1:5 because I’m hearing reports about your faith in the Lord Jesus and how much love you have for all his holy followers. 
Philemon1:6 I pray for you that the faith we share may effectively deepen your understanding of every good thing that belongs to you in Christ. 
Philemon1:7 Your love has impacted me and brings me great joy and encouragement, for the hearts of the believers have been greatly refreshed through you, dear brother." 
Philemon1:8 Even though I have enough boldness in Christ that I could command you to do what is proper," 
Philemon1:9 I’d much rather make an appeal because of our friendship. So here I am, an old man, a prisoner for Christ, making my loving appeal to you. It is on behalf of my child, whose spiritual father I became while here in prison; that is, Onesimus." 
Philemon1:10  
Philemon1:11 Formerly he was not useful or valuable to you, but now he is valuable to both of us." 
Philemon1:12 He is my very heart, and I’ve sent him back to you with this letter." 
Philemon1:13 I would have preferred to keep him at my side so that he could take your place as my helper during my imprisonment for the sake of the gospel. 
Philemon1:14 However, I did not want to make this decision without your consent, so that your act of kindness would not be a matter of obligation but out of willingness." 
Philemon1:15 Perhaps you could think of it this way: he was separated from you for a short time so that you could have him back forever. 
Philemon1:16 So welcome him no longer as a slave, but more than that, as a dearly loved brother. He is that to me especially, and how much more so to you, both humanly speaking and in the Lord." 
Philemon1:17 So if you consider me your friend and partner, accept him the same way you would accept me." 
Philemon1:18 And if he has stolen anything from you or owes you anything, just place it on my account." 
Philemon1:19 I, Paul, have written these words in my own handwriting. I promise to pay you back everything, to say nothing of the fact that you owe me your very self." 
Philemon1:20 Yes, my brother, enrich my soul in the Lord—refresh my heart in Christ!" 
Philemon1:21 I’m writing to you with confidence that you will comply with my request and do even more than what I’m asking. 
Philemon1:22 And would you do one more thing for me? Since I’m hoping through your prayers to be restored to you soon, please prepare a guest room for me." 
Philemon1:23 Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in the Anointed One, Jesus, sends his greetings of peace to you," 
Philemon1:24 and so does Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my companions in this ministry." 
Philemon1:24 and so does Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my companions in this ministry." 
Philemon1:24 and so does Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my companions in this ministry." 
Philemon1:25 May the unconditional love of the Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, be with your spirit!" 
Hebrews1:1 Throughout our history God has spoken to our ancestors by his prophets in many different ways. The revelation he gave them was only a fragment at a time, building one truth upon another." 
Hebrews1:2 But to us living in these last days, God now speaks to us openly in the language of a Son, the appointed Heir of everything, for through him God created the panorama of all things and all time." 
Hebrews1:3 The Son is the dazzling radiance of God’s splendor, the exact expression of God’s true nature—his mirror image! He holds the universe together and expands it by the mighty power of his spoken word. He accomplished for us the complete cleansing of sins, and then took his seat on the highest throne at the right hand of the majestic One." 
Hebrews1:4 He is infinitely greater than angels, for he inherited a rank and a Name far greater than theirs." 
Hebrews1:5 For God has never said to any angel what he said to Jesus: “You are my favored Son, today I have fathered you.” And this: “I will be the Father to him, and he will be the Son to me.”" 
Hebrews1:6 And again, when he brought his firstborn Son into the world: “Let all my angels bow down before him and kiss him in worship.”" 
Hebrews1:7 And about his angels he says, “I make my angels swift winds, and my ministers fiery flames.”" 
Hebrews1:8 But about his Son, he called him “God,” saying, “Your throne, O God, endures forever and ever and you will rule your kingdom with justice and righteousness," 
Hebrews1:9 For you have cherished righteousness and detested lawlessness. For this reason, God, your God, has anointed you and poured out the oil of bliss on you more than on any of your friends.”" 
Hebrews1:10 And he called him Lord, saying, “Lord, you formed the earth in the beginning and with your own hands you crafted the cosmos." 
Hebrews1:11 They will both one day disappear, but you will remain forever! They will all fade like a worn-out garment," 
Hebrews1:12 And they will be changed like clothes, and you will fold them up and put them away. But you are ‘I AM.’ You never change, years without end!”" 
Hebrews1:13 And God has never said this to any of his angels: “Take your seat next to me at my right hand until I force your whispering enemies to be a rug under your feet.” 
Hebrews1:14 What role then, do the angels have? The angels are spirit-messengers sent by God to serve those who are going to be saved." 
Hebrews2:1 This is why it is so crucial that we be all the more engaged and attentive to the truths that we have heard so that we do not drift off course. 
Hebrews2:2 For if the message of the law spoken and confirmed by angels brought a just penalty to every disobedient violation; 
Hebrews2:3 then how would we expect to escape punishment if we despise the very truths that give us life? The Lord himself was the first to announce these things, and those who heard him firsthand confirmed their accuracy." 
Hebrews2:4 Then God added his witness to theirs. He validated their ministry with signs, astonishing wonders, all kinds of powerful miracles, and by the gifts of the Holy Spirit, which he distributed as he desired." 
Hebrews2:5 For God will not place the coming world, of which we speak, under the government of angels." 
Hebrews2:6 But the Scriptures affirm: What is man that you would even think about him, or care about Adam’s race." 
Hebrews2:7 You made him lower than the angels for a little while. You placed your glory and honor upon his head as a crown. And you have given him dominion over the works of your hands," 
Hebrews2:8 For you have placed everything under his authority. This means that God has left nothing outside the control of his Son, even if presently we have yet to see this accomplished." 
Hebrews2:9 But we see Jesus, who as a man, lived for a short time lower than the angels and has now been crowned with glorious honor because of what he suffered in his death. For it was by God’s grace that he experienced death’s bitterness on behalf of everyone!" 
Hebrews2:10 For now he towers above all creation, for all things exist through him and for him. And that God made him, pioneer of our salvation, perfect through his sufferings, for this is how he brings many sons and daughters to share in his glory." 
Hebrews2:11 Jesus, the Holy One, makes us holy. And as sons and daughters, we now belong to his same Father, so he is not ashamed or embarrassed to introduce us as his brothers and sisters!" 
Hebrews2:12 For he has said, “I will reveal who you really are to my brothers and sisters, and I will glorify you with praises in the midst of the congregation.”" 
Hebrews2:13 And, “My confidence rests in God!” And again he says, “Here I am, one with the children Yahweh has given me.”" 
Hebrews2:14 Since all his “children” have flesh and blood, so Jesus became human to fully identify with us. He did this, so that he could experience death and annihilate the effects of the intimidating accuser who holds against us the power of death." 
Hebrews2:15 By embracing death Jesus sets free those who live their entire lives in bondage to the tormenting dread of death. 
Hebrews2:16 For it is clear that he didn’t do this for the angels, but for all the sons and daughters of Abraham." 
Hebrews2:17 This is why he had to be a man and take hold of our humanity in every way. He made us his brothers and sisters and became our merciful and faithful King-Priest before God; as the One who removed our sins to make us one with him. 
Hebrews2:18 He suffered and endured every test and temptation, so that he can help us every time we pass through the ordeals of life." 
Hebrews3:1 And so, dear brothers and sisters, you are now made holy, and each of you is invited to the feast of your heavenly calling. So fasten your thoughts fully onto Jesus, whom we embrace as our Apostle and King-Priest." 
Hebrews3:2 For he was faithful to the Father who appointed him, in the same way that Moses was a model of faithfulness in what was entrusted to him." 
Hebrews3:3 But Jesus is worthy to receive a much greater glory than Moses, for the one who builds a house deserves to be honored more than the house he builds." 
Hebrews3:4 Every house is built by someone, but God is the Designer and Builder of all things." 
Hebrews3:5 Indeed, Moses served God faithfully in all he gave him to do. His work prophetically illustrates things that would later be spoken and fulfilled." 
Hebrews3:6 But Christ is more than a Servant, he was faithful as the Son in charge of God’s house. And now we are part of his house if we continue courageously to hold firmly to our bold confidence and our victorious hope." 
Hebrews3:7 This is why the Holy Spirit says, “If only you would listen to his voice this day!" 
Hebrews3:8 Don’t make him angry by hardening your hearts, like your ancestors did during the days of their rebellion, when they were tested in the wilderness." 
Hebrews3:9 There your fathers tested me and tried my patience even though they saw my miracles for forty years they still doubted me! 
Hebrews3:10 This ignited my anger with that generation and I said about them, ‘They wander in their hearts just like they do with their feet, and they refuse to learn my ways.’" 
Hebrews3:11 My heart grieved over them so I decreed: ‘They will not enter into my rest!’ ” 
Hebrews3:12 So search your hearts every day, my brothers and sisters, and make sure that none of you has evil or unbelief hiding within you. For it will lead you astray, and make you unresponsive to the living God." 
Hebrews3:13 This is the time to encourage each other to never be stubborn or hardened by sin’s deceitfulness. 
Hebrews3:14 For we are mingled with the Messiah, if we will continue unshaken in this confident assurance from the beginning until the end." 
Hebrews3:15 For again, the Scriptures say, If only today you would listen to his voice. Don’t make him angry by hardening your hearts, as you did in the wilderness rebellion." 
Hebrews3:16 The same people who were delivered from bondage and brought out of Egypt by Moses, were the ones who heard and still rebelled." 
Hebrews3:17 They grieved God for forty years by sinning in their unbelief, until they dropped dead in the desert." 
Hebrews3:18 So God swore an oath that they would never enter into his calming place of rest all because they disobeyed him. 
Hebrews3:19 It is clear that they could not enter into their inheritance because they wrapped their hearts in unbelief. 
Hebrews4:1 Now the promise of entering into God’s rest is still for us today. So we must be extremely careful to ensure that we all embrace the fullness of that promise and not fail to experience it. 
Hebrews4:2 For we have heard the good news of deliverance just as they did, yet they didn’t join their faith with the Word. Instead, what they heard didn’t affect them deeply, for they doubted." 
Hebrews4:3 For those of us who believe, faith activates the promise and we experience the realm of confident rest! For he has said, “I was grieved with them and made a solemn oath, ‘They will not enter into my rest.’ ” God’s works have all been completed from the foundation of the world," 
Hebrews4:4 for it says in the Scriptures, And on the seventh day God rested from all his works." 
Hebrews4:5 And again, as stated before, They will not enter into my rest." 
Hebrews4:6 Those who first heard the good news of deliverance failed to enter into that realm of faith’s rest because of their unbelieving hearts. Yet the fact remains that we still have the opportunity to enter into the faith-rest life and experience the fulfillment of the promise! 
Hebrews4:7 For God still has ordained a day for us to enter into called “Today.” For it was long afterwards that God repeated it in David’s words, “If only today you would listen to his voice and do not harden your hearts!”" 
Hebrews4:8 Now if this promise of “rest” was fulfilled when Joshua brought the people into the land, God wouldn’t have spoken later of another “rest” yet to come." 
Hebrews4:9 So we conclude that there is still a full and complete Sabbath-rest waiting for believers to experience. 
Hebrews4:10 As we enter into God’s faith-rest life we cease from our own works, just as God celebrates his finished works and rests in them." 
Hebrews4:11 So then we must be eager to experience this faith-rest life, so that no one falls short by following the same pattern of doubt and unbelief." 
Hebrews4:12 For we have the living Word of God, which is full of energy, like a two-mouthed sword. It will even penetrate to the very core of our being where soul and spirit, bone and marrow meet! It interprets and reveals the true thoughts and secret motives of our hearts." 
Hebrews4:13 There is not one person who can hide their thoughts from God, for nothing that we do remains a secret, and nothing created is concealed, but everything is exposed and defenseless before his eyes, to whom we must render an account." 
Hebrews4:14 So then, we must cling in faith to all we know to be true. For we have a magnificent King-Priest, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who rose into the heavenly realm for us, and now sympathizes with us in our frailty." 
Hebrews4:15 He understands humanity, for as a man, our magnificent King-Priest was tempted in every way just as we are, and conquered sin." 
Hebrews4:16 So now we draw near freely and boldly to where grace is enthroned, to receive mercy’s kiss and discover the grace we urgently need to strengthen us in our time of weakness." 
Hebrews5:1 For every High Priest was chosen from among the people and appointed to represent them before God by presenting their gifts to God and offering sacrifices on their behalf. 
Hebrews5:2 Since the High Priest is also one who is clothed in weakness, he humbles himself by showing compassion to those who are ignorant of God’s ways and stray from them." 
Hebrews5:3 And for this reason, he has to not only present the sin offerings of others, but also to bring a sin offering for himself." 
Hebrews5:4 And no one takes this honor upon himself by being self-appointed, but God is the one who calls each one, just as Aaron was called." 
Hebrews5:5 So also, Christ was not self-appointed and did not glorify himself by becoming a high priest, but God called and glorified him! For the Father said to him, “You are my favored Son. Today I have fathered you.”" 
Hebrews5:6 And in another Scripture he says about this new priestly order, “You are a Priest like Melchizedek, a King-Priest forever!”" 
Hebrews5:7 During Christ’s days on earth he pleaded with God, praying with passion and with tearful agony that God would spare him from death. And because of his perfect devotion his prayer was answered and he was delivered." 
Hebrews5:8 But even though he was a wonderful Son, he learned to listen and obey through all his sufferings." 
Hebrews5:9 And after being proven perfect in this way he has now become the source of eternal salvation to all those who listen to him and obey. 
Hebrews5:10 For God has designated him as the King-Priest who is over the priestly order of Melchizedek. 
Hebrews5:11 We have much to say about this topic although it is difficult to explain, because you have become too dull and sluggish to understand." 
Hebrews5:12 For you should already be professors instructing others by now; but instead, you need to be taught from the beginning the basics of God’s prophetic oracles! You’re like children still needing milk and not yet ready to digest solid food." 
Hebrews5:13 For every spiritual infant who lives on milk is not yet pierced by the revelation of righteousness. 
Hebrews5:14 But solid food is for the mature, whose spiritual senses perceive heavenly matters. And they have been adequately trained by what they’ve experienced to emerge with understanding of the difference between what is truly excellent and what is evil and harmful." 
Hebrews6:1 Now is the time for us to progress beyond the basic message of Christ and advance into perfection. The foundation has already been laid for us to build upon: turning away from our dead works to embrace faith in God," 
Hebrews6:2 teaching about different baptisms, impartation by the laying on of hands, resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment." 
Hebrews6:3 So with God’s enablement we will move on to deeper truths. 
Hebrews6:4 It is impossible to restore an apostate. For once a person has come into God’s light, and tasted the gifts of the heavenly realm, and has received the Holy Spirit," 
Hebrews6:5 and feasted on the good Word of God, and has entered into the power of the age that is breaking in," 
Hebrews6:6 if he abandons his faith, there is no use even trying to lead him to repentance. By their sin of apostasy they re-crucify the Son of God, and have publicly repudiated him." 
Hebrews6:7 For men’s hearts are just like the soil that drinks up the showers which often fall upon it. Some soil will yield crops as God’s blessing upon the field. 
Hebrews6:8 But if the field continues to produce only thorns and thistles a curse hangs over it and it will be burned. 
Hebrews6:9 Even though we speak like this, beloved, we are fully convinced that there are more beautiful and excellent things, which flow from your salvation." 
Hebrews6:10 For God, the Faithful One, is not unfair. How can he forget the beautiful work you have done for him? He remembers the love you demonstrate as you continually serve his beloved ones for the glory of his name." 
Hebrews6:11 But we long to see you passionately advance until the end and you find your hope fulfilled. 
Hebrews6:12 So don’t allow your hearts to grow dull or lose your enthusiasm, but follow the example of those who fully received what God has promised because of their strong faith and patient endurance." 
Hebrews6:13 Now when God made a promise to Abraham, since there was no one greater than himself, he swore an oath on his own integrity to keep the promise as sure as God exists!" 
Hebrews6:14 So he said, “Have no doubt, I promise to bless you over and over, and give you a son and multiply you without measure!”" 
Hebrews6:15 So Abraham waited patiently in faith and succeeded in seeing the promise fulfilled. 
Hebrews6:16 It is very common for people to swear an oath by something greater than themselves, for the oath will confirm their statements and end all dispute." 
Hebrews6:17 So in the same way, God wanted to end all doubt and confirm it even more forcefully to those who would inherit his promises. His purpose was unchangeable, so God added his vow to the promise." 
Hebrews6:18 So it is impossible for God to lie for we know that his promise and his vow will never change! And now we have run into his heart to hide ourselves in his faithfulness. This is where we find his strength and comfort, for he empowers us to seize what has already been established ahead of time—an unshakable hope!" 
Hebrews6:19 We have this certain hope like a strong, unbreakable anchor holding our souls to God himself. Our anchor of hope is fastened to the mercy seat in the heavenly realm beyond the sacred threshold," 
Hebrews6:20 and where Jesus, our forerunner, has gone in before us. He is now and forever our royal Priest like Melchizedek." 
Hebrews7:1 Melchizedek’s name means “king of righteousness.” He was the King of Peace, because the name of the city he ruled as king was Salem, which means “peace.” And he was also a priest of the Most High God. Now when Abraham was returning from defeating many kings in battle, Melchizedek went out to meet him and blessed him. Then Abraham took a tenth of everything he had won in battle and gave it to Melchizedek." 
Hebrews7:2  
Hebrews7:3 This Melchizedek has no father or mother, and no record of any of his ancestors. He was never born and he never died, but his life is like a picture of the Son of God, a King-Priest forever!" 
Hebrews7:4 Now let me show you proof of how great this Melchizedek is: – Even though Abraham was the most honored and favored patriarch of all God’s chosen ones, he gave a tithe of the spoils of battle to Melchizedek." 
Hebrews7:5 It would be understandable if Melchizedek had been a Jewish priest, for later on God’s people were required by law to support their priests financially, because the priests were their relatives and Abraham’s descendants." 
Hebrews7:6 But Melchizedek was not Abraham’s Jewish relative, and yet Abraham still paid him a tithe. – Melchizedek imparted a blessing on mighty Abraham, who had received the promises of God." 
Hebrews7:7 And no one could deny the fact that the one who has the power to impart a blessing is superior to the one who receives it. – 
Hebrews7:8 Although the Jewish priests received tithes, they all died—they were mortal. But Melchizedek lives on! –" 
Hebrews7:9 It could even be said that Levi, the ancestor of every Jewish priest who received tithes, actually paid tithes to Melchizedek through Abraham." 
Hebrews7:10 For although Levi was yet unborn, the seed from which Levi came was present in Abraham when he paid his tithe to Melchizedek. –" 
Hebrews7:11 If any of the Levitical priests who served under the law had the power to bring us into perfection, then why did God send Christ as Priest after the likeness of Melchizedek? He should have said, “After the likeness of Aaron.” –" 
Hebrews7:12 And furthermore, for God to send a new and different rank of priest, meant a new law would have had to be instituted even to allow it!" 
Hebrews7:13 Yet the One these things all point to, was from a different tribe and no one from that tribe ever officiated at God’s altar," 
Hebrews7:14 for we all know that our Lord didn’t descend from the tribe of Levi, but shined from the tribe of Judah. And Moses himself never said anything of a priest in connection with Judah’s tribe." 
Hebrews7:15 And all this is made even clearer if there was another King-Priest raised up with the rank of Melchizedek. 
Hebrews7:16 This King-Priest did not arise because of a genealogical right under the law to be a priest, but by the power of an indestructible, resurrection life!" 
Hebrews7:17 For it says in the Psalms, You are like Melchizedek, a King-Priest forever!" 
Hebrews7:18 The old order of priesthood has been set aside as weak and powerless. 
Hebrews7:19 For the law has never made anyone perfect, but in its place is a far better hope which gives us confidence to experience intimacy with God!" 
Hebrews7:20 And he confirmed it to us with his solemn vow. For the former priests took their office without an oath," 
Hebrews7:21 but with Jesus, God affirmed his royal-priesthood with his promise, saying, The Lord has made a solemn oath and will never change his mind, “You are a King-Priest forever!”" 
Hebrews7:22 So all of this magnifies the truth that we have a superior covenant with God than what they experienced, for Jesus himself is its guarantor!" 
Hebrews7:23 As additional proof, we know there were many priests under the old system, for they eventually died and their office had to be filled by another." 
Hebrews7:24 But Jesus permanently holds his priestly office, since he lives forever and will never have a successor!" 
Hebrews7:25 So he is able to save fully from now throughout eternity, everyone who comes to God through him, because he lives to pray continually for them." 
Hebrews7:26 He is the High Priest who perfectly fits our need—holy, without a trace of evil, without the ability to deceive, incapable of sin, and exalted beyond the heavens!" 
Hebrews7:27 Unlike the former high priests, he is not compelled to offer daily sacrifices. They had to bring a sacrifice first for their own sins, then for the sins of the people, but he finished the sacrificial system, once and for all, when he offered himself." 
Hebrews7:28 The law appointed flawed men as high priests, but God’s promise, sealed with his oath, which succeeded the law, appoints a perfect Son who is complete forever!" 
Hebrews8:1 Now this is the crowning point of what we are saying: We have a magnificent King-Priest who ministers for us at the right hand of God. He is enthroned with honor next to the throne of the Majesty on high. 
Hebrews8:2 He serves in the holy sanctuary in the true heavenly tabernacle set up by God, and not by men." 
Hebrews8:3 Since every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices, so the Messiah also had to bring some sacrifice." 
Hebrews8:4 But since he didn’t qualify to be an earthly priest, and there are already priests who offer sacrifices prescribed by the law, he offered in heaven a perfect sacrifice." 
Hebrews8:5 The priests on earth serve in a temple that is but a copy modeled after the heavenly sanctuary; a shadow of the reality. For when Moses began to construct the tabernacle God warned him and said, “You must precisely follow the pattern I revealed to you on Mount Sinai.”" 
Hebrews8:6 But now Jesus the Messiah has accepted a priestly ministry which far surpasses theirs, since he is the catalyst of a better covenant which contains far more wonderful promises!" 
Hebrews8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless no one would have needed a second one to replace it. 
Hebrews8:8 But God revealed the defect and limitation of the first when he said to his people, “Look! The day will come, declares the Lord, when I will satisfy the people of Israel and Judah by giving them a new covenant." 
Hebrews8:9 It will be an entirely different covenant than the one I made with their fathers when I led them by my hand out of Egypt. For they did not remain faithful to my covenant, so I rejected them, says the Lord God." 
Hebrews8:10 For here is the covenant I will one day establish with the people of Israel: I will embed my laws within their thoughts and fasten them onto their hearts. I will be their loyal God and they will be my loyal people. 
Hebrews8:11 And the result of this will be that everyone will know me as Lord! There will be no need at all to teach their fellow-citizens or brothers by saying, ‘You should know Yahweh,’ since everyone will know me inwardly, from the most unlikely to the most distinguished." 
Hebrews8:12 For I will demonstrate my mercy to them and will forgive their evil deeds, and never remember again their sins.”" 
Hebrews8:13 This proves that by establishing this new covenant the first is now obsolete, ready to expire, and about to disappear." 
Hebrews9:1 Now in the first covenant there were specific rules for worship including a sanctuary on earth to worship in. 
Hebrews9:2 When you entered the tabernacle you would first come into the holy chamber where you would find the lampstand and the bread of his presence on the fellowship table. 
Hebrews9:3 Then as you pass through the next curtain you would enter the innermost chamber called, the holiest sanctuary of all." 
Hebrews9:4 It contained the golden altar of incense and the ark of covenant mercy, which was a wooden box covered entirely with gold. And placed inside the ark of covenant mercy was the golden jar with mystery-manna inside, Aaron’s resurrection rod, which had sprouted, and the stone tablets engraved with the covenant laws." 
Hebrews9:5 On top of the lid of the ark were two cherubim, angels of splendor, with outstretched wings overshadowing the throne of mercy. But now is not the time to discuss further the significant details of these things." 
Hebrews9:6 So with this prescribed pattern of worship the priests would routinely go in and out of the first chamber to perform their religious duties. 
Hebrews9:7 And the high priest was permitted to enter into the Holiest Sanctuary of All only once a year and he could never enter without first offering sacrificial blood for both his own sins and for the sins of the people. 
Hebrews9:8 Now the Holy Spirit uses the symbols of this pattern of worship to reveal that the perfect way of holiness had not yet been unveiled. For as long as the tabernacle stood 
Hebrews9:9 it was an illustration that pointed to our present time of fulfillment, demonstrating that offerings and animal sacrifices had failed to perfectly cleanse the conscience of the worshiper." 
Hebrews9:10 For this old pattern of worship was a matter of external rules and rituals concerning food and drink and ceremonial washings which was imposed upon us until the appointed time of heart-restoration had arrived. 
Hebrews9:11 But now the Anointed One has become the King-Priest of every wonderful thing that has come. For he serves in a greater, more perfect heavenly tabernacle not made by men, that is to say, not a part of this creation." 
Hebrews9:12 And he has entered once and forever into the Holiest Sanctuary of All, not with the blood of animal sacrifices, but the sacred blood of his own sacrifice. And he alone has made our salvation secure forever!" 
Hebrews9:13 Under the old covenant the blood of bulls, goats, and the ashes of a heifer were sprinkled on those who were defiled and effectively cleansed them outwardly from their ceremonial impurities." 
Hebrews9:14 Yet how much more will the sacred blood of the Messiah thoroughly cleanse our consciences! For by the power of the eternal Spirit he has offered himself to God as the perfect Sacrifice that now frees us from our dead works to worship and serve the living God. 
Hebrews9:15 So Jesus is the One who has enacted a new covenant with a new relationship with God so that those who accept the invitation will receive the eternal inheritance he has promised to his heirs. For he died to release us from the guilt of the violations committed under the first covenant. 
Hebrews9:16 Now a person’s last will and testament can only take effect after one has been proven to have died; otherwise the will cannot be in force while the person who made it is still alive. 
Hebrews9:17  
Hebrews9:18 So this is why not even the first covenant was inaugurated without the blood of animals. 
Hebrews9:19 For Moses ratified the covenant after he gave the people all the commandments of the law. He took the blood of calves and goats, with water, scarlet wool, and a hyssop branch, and sprinkled both the people and the book of the covenant," 
Hebrews9:20 saying, “This is the blood of the covenant that God commands you to keep.”" 
Hebrews9:21 And later Moses also sprinkled the tabernacle with blood and every utensil and item used in their service of worship. 
Hebrews9:22 Actually, nearly everything under the law was purified with blood, since forgiveness only comes through an outpouring of blood." 
Hebrews9:23 And so it was necessary for all the earthly symbols of the heavenly realities to be purified with these animal sacrifices, but the heavenly things themselves required a superior sacrifice than these." 
Hebrews9:24 For the Messiah did not enter into the earthly tabernacle made by men, which was but an echo of the true sanctuary, but he entered into heaven itself to appear before the face of God in our place." 
Hebrews9:25 Under the old system year after year the high priest entered the most holy sanctuary with blood that was not his own. But the Messiah did not need to repeatedly offer himself year after year," 
Hebrews9:26 for that would mean he must suffer repeatedly ever since the fall of the world. But now he has appeared at the fulfillment of the ages to abolish sin once and for all by the sacrifice of himself! 
Hebrews9:27 Every human being is appointed to die once, and then to face God’s judgment." 
Hebrews9:28 But when we die we will be face-to-face with Christ, the One who experienced death once for all to bear the sins of many! And now to those who eagerly await him, he will appear a second time; not to deal with sin, but to bring us the fullness of salvation." 
Hebrews10:1 The old system of living under the law presented us with only a faint shadow, a crude outline of the reality of the wonderful blessings to come. Even with its steady stream of sacrifices offered year after year, there still was nothing that could make our hearts perfect before God." 
Hebrews10:2 For if animal sacrifices could once and for all eliminate sin, they would have ceased to be offered and the worshipers would have clean consciences. Instead, once was not enough so by the repetitive sacrifices year after year, the worshipers were continually reminded of their sins, with their hearts still impure." 
Hebrews10:3  
Hebrews10:4 For what power does the blood of bulls and goats have to remove sin’s guilt? 
Hebrews10:5 So when Jesus the Messiah came into the world he said, “Since your ultimate desire was not another animal sacrifice, you have clothed me with a body that I might offer myself instead!" 
Hebrews10:6 Multiple burnt offerings and sin-offerings cannot satisfy your justice. 
Hebrews10:7 So I said to you, ‘God— I will be the One to go and do your will, to fulfill all that is written of me in your Word!’ ”" 
Hebrews10:8 First he said, “Multiple burnt-offerings and sin-offerings cannot satisfy your justice” (even though the law required them to be offered)." 
Hebrews10:9 And then he said, “God, I will be the One to go and do your will.” So by being the sacrifice that removes sin, he abolishes animal sacrifices and replaces that entire system with the new covenant." 
Hebrews10:10 By God’s will we have been purified and made holy once and for all through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus, the Messiah!" 
Hebrews10:11 Yet every day priests still serve, ritually offering the same sacrifices again and again—sacrifices that can never take away sin’s guilt." 
Hebrews10:12 But when this Priest had offered the one supreme sacrifice for sin for all time he sat down on a throne at the right hand of God," 
Hebrews10:13 waiting until all his whispering enemies are subdued and turn into his footstool. 
Hebrews10:14 And by his one perfect sacrifice he made us perfectly holy and complete for all time! 
Hebrews10:15 The Holy Spirit confirms this to us by this Scripture, for the Lord says," 
Hebrews10:16 “Afterwards, I will give them this covenant: I will embed my laws into their hearts and fasten my Word to their thoughts.”" 
Hebrews10:17 And then he says, “I will not ever again remember their sins and lawless deeds!”" 
Hebrews10:18 So if our sins have been forgiven and forgotten, why would we ever need to offer another sacrifice for sin?" 
Hebrews10:19 And now we are brothers and sisters in God’s family because of the blood of Jesus, and he welcomes us to come into the most holy sanctuary in the heavenly realm—boldly and without hesitation." 
Hebrews10:20 For he has dedicated a new, life-giving way for us to approach God. For just as the veil was torn in two, Jesus’ body was torn open to give us free and fresh access to him!" 
Hebrews10:21 And since we now have a magnificent High Priest to welcome us into God’s house," 
Hebrews10:22 we come closer to God and approach him with an open heart, fully convinced that nothing will keep us at a distance from him. For our hearts have been sprinkled with blood to remove impurity, and we have been freed from an accusing conscience. Now we are clean, unstained, and presentable to God inside and out!" 
Hebrews10:23 So now wrap your heart tightly around the hope that lives within us, knowing that God always keeps his promises!" 
Hebrews10:24 Discover creative ways to encourage others and to motivate them toward acts of compassion, doing beautiful works as expressions of love." 
Hebrews10:25 This is not the time to pull away and neglect meeting together, as some have formed the habit of doing. In fact, we should come together even more frequently, eager to encourage and urge each other onward as we anticipate that day dawning." 
Hebrews10:26 For if we continue to persist in deliberate sin after we have known and received the truth, there is not another sacrifice for sin to be made for us." 
Hebrews10:27 But this would qualify one for the certain, terrifying expectation of judgment and the raging fire ready to burn up his enemies!" 
Hebrews10:28 Anyone who disobeyed Moses’ law died without mercy on the simple evidence of two or three witnesses. 
Hebrews10:29 How much more severely do you suppose a person deserves to be judged who has contempt for God’s Son, and who scorns the blood of the new covenant that made him holy, and has outraged the Spirit of grace?" 
Hebrews10:30 For we know him who said, “I have the right to take revenge and pay them back for their evil!” And also, “The Lord God will judge his own people!”" 
Hebrews10:31 It is the most terrifying thing of all to come under the judgment of the Living God! 
Hebrews10:32 Don’t you remember those days right after the Light shined in your hearts? You endured a great marathon season of suffering hardships, yet you stood your ground." 
Hebrews10:33 And at times you were publicly and shamefully mistreated, being persecuted for your faith; then at other times you stood side by side with those who preach the message of hope." 
Hebrews10:34 You sympathized with those in prison and when all your belongings were confiscated you accepted that violation with joy; convinced that you possess a treasure growing in heaven that could never be taken from you. 
Hebrews10:35 So don’t lose your bold, courageous faith, for you are destined for a great reward!" 
Hebrews10:36 You need the strength of endurance to reveal the poetry of God’s will and then you receive the promise in full. 
Hebrews10:37 For soon and very soon, “The One who is appearing will come without delay!”" 
Hebrews10:38 And he also says, “My righteous ones will live from my faith. But if fear holds them back, my soul is not content with them!”" 
Hebrews10:39 But we are certainly not those who are held back by fear and perish; we are among those who have faith and experience true life! 
Hebrews11:1 Now faith brings our hopes into reality and becomes the foundation needed to acquire the things we long for. It is all the evidence required to prove what is still unseen. 
Hebrews11:2 This testimony of faith is what previous generations were commended for. 
Hebrews11:3 Faith empowers us to see that the universe was created and beautifully coordinated by the power of God’s words! He spoke and the invisible realm gave birth to all that is seen. 
Hebrews11:4 Faith moved Abel to choose a more acceptable sacrifice to offer God than his brother Cain, and God declared him righteous because of his offering of faith. By his faith, Abel still speaks instruction to us today, even though he is long dead." 
Hebrews11:5 Faith translated Enoch from this life and he was taken up into heaven! He never had to experience death; he just disappeared from this world because God promoted him. For before he was translated to the heavenly realm his life had become a pleasure to God. 
Hebrews11:6 And without faith living within us it would be impossible to please God. For we come to God in faith knowing that he is real and that he rewards the faith of those who passionately seek him. 
Hebrews11:7 Faith opened Noah’s heart to receive revelation and warnings from God about what was coming, even things that had never been seen. But he stepped out in reverent obedience to God and built an ark that would save him and his family. By his faith the world was condemned, but Noah received God’s gift of righteousness that comes by believing." 
Hebrews11:8 Faith motivated Abraham to obey God’s call and leave the familiar to discover the territory he was destined to inherit from God. So he left with only a promise and without even knowing ahead of time where he was going, Abraham stepped out in faith." 
Hebrews11:9 He lived by faith as an immigrant in his promised land as though it belonged to someone else. He journeyed through the land living in tents with Isaac and Jacob who were persuaded that they were also co-heirs of the same promise. 
Hebrews11:10 His eyes of faith were set on the city with unshakable foundations, whose architect and builder is God himself." 
Hebrews11:11 Sarah’s faith embraced God’s miracle power to conceive even though she was barren and was past the age of childbearing, for the authority of her faith rested in the One who made the promise, and she tapped into his faithfulness." 
Hebrews11:12 In fact, so many children were subsequently fathered by this aged man of faith—one who was as good as dead, that he now has offspring as innumerable as the sand on the seashore and as the stars in the sky!" 
Hebrews11:13 These heroes all died still clinging to their faith, not even receiving all that had been promised them. But they saw beyond the horizon the fulfillment of their promises and gladly embraced it from afar. They all lived their lives on earth as those who belonged to another realm." 
Hebrews11:14 For clearly, those who live this way are longing for the appearing of a heavenly city." 
Hebrews11:15 And if their hearts were still remembering what they left behind, they would have found an opportunity to go back." 
Hebrews11:16 But they couldn’t turn back for their hearts were fixed on what was far greater, that is, the heavenly realm! So because of this God is not ashamed in any way to be called their God, for he has prepared a heavenly city for them." 
Hebrews11:17 Faith operated powerfully in Abraham for when he was put to the test he offered up Isaac. Even though he received God’s promises of descendants, he was willing to offer up his only son!" 
Hebrews11:18 For God had promised, “Through your son Isaac your lineage will carry on your name.”" 
Hebrews11:19 Abraham’s faith made it logical to him that God could raise Isaac from the dead, and symbolically, that’s exactly what happened." 
Hebrews11:20 The power of faith prompted Isaac to impart a blessing to his sons, Jacob and Esau, concerning their prophetic destinies." 
Hebrews11:21 Jacob worshiped in faith’s reality at the end of his life, and leaning upon his staff he imparted a prophetic blessing upon each of Joseph’s sons." 
Hebrews11:22 Faith inspired Joseph and opened his eyes to see into the future, for as he was dying he prophesied about the exodus of Israel out of Egypt, and gave instructions that his bones were to be taken from Egypt with them." 
Hebrews11:23 Faith prompted the parents of Moses at his birth to hide him for three months, because they realized their child was exceptional and they refused to be afraid of the king’s edict." 
Hebrews11:24 Faith enabled Moses to choose God’s will, for although he was raised as the son of Pharaoh’s daughter, he refused to make that his identity," 
Hebrews11:25 choosing instead to suffer mistreatment with the people of God. Moses preferred faith’s certainty above the momentary enjoyment of sin’s pleasures. 
Hebrews11:26 He found his true wealth in suffering abuse for being anointed, more than in anything the world could offer him, for his eyes looked with wonder not on the immediate, but on the ultimate—faith’s great reward!" 
Hebrews11:27 Holding faith’s promise Moses abandoned Egypt and had no fear of Pharaoh’s rage because he persisted in faith as if he had seen God who is unseen. 
Hebrews11:28 Faith stirred Moses to perform the rite of Passover and sprinkle lamb’s blood, to prevent the destroyer from harming their firstborn." 
Hebrews11:29 Faith opened the way for the Hebrews to cross the Red Sea as if on dry land, but when the Egyptians tried to cross they were swallowed up and drowned!" 
Hebrews11:30 Faith pulled down Jericho’s walls after the people marched around them for seven days! 
Hebrews11:31 Faith provided a way of escape for Rahab the prostitute, avoiding the destruction of the unbelievers, because she received the Hebrew spies in peace." 
Hebrews11:32 And what more could I say to convince you? For there is not enough time to tell you of the faith of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets." 
Hebrews11:33 Through faith’s power they conquered kingdoms and established true justice. Their faith fastened onto their promises and pulled them into reality! It was faith that shut the mouth of lions," 
Hebrews11:34 put out the power of raging fire, and caused many to escape certain death by the sword. Although weak, their faith imparted power to make them strong! Faith sparked courage within them and they became mighty warriors in battle, pulling armies from another realm into battle array." 
Hebrews11:35 Faith-filled women saw their dead children raised in resurrection power. Yet it was faith that enabled others to endure great atrocities. They were stretched out on the wheel and tortured, and didn’t deny their faith in order to be freed, because they longed for a more honorable and glorious resurrection!" 
Hebrews11:36 Others were mocked and experienced the most severe beating with whips; they were in chains and imprisoned. 
Hebrews11:37 Some of these faith champions were brutally killed by stoning, being sawn in two or slaughtered by the sword. These lived in faith as they went about wearing goatskins and sheepskins for clothing. They lost everything they possessed, they endured great afflictions, and they were cruelly mistreated." 
Hebrews11:38 They wandered the earth living in the desert wilderness, in caves, on barren mountains and in holes in the earth. Truly, the world was not even worthy of them, not realizing who they were." 
Hebrews11:39 These were the true heroes, commended for their faith, yet they lived in hope without receiving the fullness of what was promised them." 
Hebrews11:40 But now God has invited us to live in something better than what they had—faith’s fullness! This is so that they could be brought to finished perfection alongside of us. 
Hebrews12:1 As for us, we have all of these great witnesses who encircle us like clouds. So we must let go of every wound that has pierced us and the sin we so easily fall into. Then we will be able to run life’s marathon race with passion and determination, for the path has been already marked out before us." 
Hebrews12:2 We look away from the natural realm and we focus our attention and expectation onto Jesus who birthed faith within us and who leads us forward into faith’s perfection. His example is this: Because his heart was focused on the joy of knowing that you would be his, he endured the agony of the cross and conquered its humiliation, and now sits exalted at the right hand of the throne of God!" 
Hebrews12:3 So consider carefully how Jesus faced such intense opposition from sinners who opposed their own souls, so that you won’t become worn down and cave in under life’s pressures." 
Hebrews12:4 After all, you have not yet reached the point of sweating blood in your opposition to sin." 
Hebrews12:5 And have you forgotten his encouraging words spoken to you as his children? He said, “My child, don’t underestimate the value of the discipline and training of the Lord God, or get depressed when he has to correct you." 
Hebrews12:6 For the Lord’s training of your life is the evidence of his faithful love. And when he draws you to himself, it proves you are his delightful child.”" 
Hebrews12:7 Fully embrace God’s correction as part of your training, for he is doing what any loving father does for his children. For who has ever heard of a child who never had to be corrected?" 
Hebrews12:8 We all should welcome God’s discipline as the validation of authentic sonship. For if we have never once endured his correction it only proves we are strangers and not sons. 
Hebrews12:9 And isn’t it true that we respect our earthly fathers even though they corrected and disciplined us? Then we should demonstrate an even greater respect for God, our spiritual Father, as we submit to his life-giving discipline." 
Hebrews12:10 Our parents corrected us for the short time of our childhood as it seemed good to them. But God corrects us throughout our lives for our own good, giving us an invitation to share his holiness." 
Hebrews12:11 Now all discipline seems to be painful at the time, yet later it will produce a transformation of character, bringing a harvest of righteousness and peace to those who yield to it." 
Hebrews12:12 So be made strong even in your weakness by lifting up your tired hands in prayer and worship. And strengthen your weak knees," 
Hebrews12:13 for as you keep walking forward on God’s paths all your stumbling ways will be divinely healed! 
Hebrews12:14 In every relationship be swift to choose peace over competition, and run swiftly toward holiness, for those who are not holy will not see the Lord." 
Hebrews12:15 Watch over each other to make sure that no one misses the revelation of God’s grace. And make sure no one lives with a root of bitterness sprouting within them which will only cause trouble and poison the hearts of many. 
Hebrews12:16 Be careful that no one among you lives in immorality, becoming careless about God’s blessings, like Esau who traded away his rights as the firstborn for a simple meal." 
Hebrews12:17 And we know that later on when he wanted to inherit his father’s blessing, he was turned away, even though he begged for it with bitter tears, for it was too late then to repent." 
Hebrews12:18 For we are not coming, as Moses did, to a physical mountain with its burning fire, thick clouds of darkness and gloom, and with a raging whirlwind." 
Hebrews12:19 We are not those who are being warned by the jarring blast of a trumpet and the thundering voice; the fearful voice that they begged to be silenced. 
Hebrews12:20 They couldn’t handle God’s command that said, “If so much as an animal approaches the mountain it is to be stoned to death!”" 
Hebrews12:21 The astounding phenomena Moses witnessed caused him to shudder with fear and he could only say, “I am trembling in terror!”" 
Hebrews12:22 By contrast, we have already come near to God in a totally different realm, the Zion-realm, for we have entered the city of the Living God, which is the New Jerusalem in heaven! We have joined the festal gathering of myriads of angels in their joyous celebration!" 
Hebrews12:23 And as members of the church of the Firstborn all our names have been legally registered as citizens of heaven! And we have come before God who judges all, and who lives among the spirits of the righteous who have been made perfect in his eyes!" 
Hebrews12:24 And we have come to Jesus who established a new covenant with his blood sprinkled upon the mercy seat; blood that continues to speak from heaven, “forgiveness,” a better message than Abel’s blood that cries from the earth, “justice.”" 
Hebrews12:25 Make very sure that you never refuse to listen to God when he speaks! For the God who spoke on earth from Sinai is the same God who now speaks from heaven. Those who heard him speak his living Word on earth found nowhere to hide, so what chance is there for us to escape if we turn our backs on God and refuse to hear his warnings as he speaks from heaven?" 
Hebrews12:26 The earth was rocked at the sound of his voice from the mountain, but now he has promised, “Once and for all I will not only shake the systems of the world, but also the unseen powers in the heavenly realm!”" 
Hebrews12:27 Now this phrase “once and for all” clearly indicates the final removal of things that are shaking, that is, the old order, so only what is unshakable will remain." 
Hebrews12:28 Since we are receiving our rights to an unshakable kingdom we should be extremely thankful and offer God the purest worship that delights his heart as we lay down our lives in absolute surrender, filled with awe." 
Hebrews12:29 For our God is a holy, devouring fire!" 
Hebrews13:1 No matter what, make room in your heart to love every believer." 
Hebrews13:2 And show hospitality to strangers, for they may be angels from God showing up as your guests." 
Hebrews13:3 Identify with those who are in prison as though you were there suffering with them, and those who are mistreated as if you could feel their pain." 
Hebrews13:4 Honor the sanctity of marriage and keep your vows of purity to one another, for God will judge sexual immorality in any form, whether single or married." 
Hebrews13:5 Don’t be obsessed with money but live content with what you have, for you always have God’s presence. For hasn’t he promised you, “I will never leave you, never! And I will not loosen my grip on your life!”" 
Hebrews13:6 So we can say with great confidence: “I know the Lord is for me and I will never be afraid of what people may do to me!” 
Hebrews13:7 Don’t forget the example of your spiritual leaders who have spoken God’s messages to you, take a close look at how their lives ended, and then follow their walk of faith." 
Hebrews13:8 Jesus, the Anointed One, is always the same—yesterday, today, and forever." 
Hebrews13:9 So don’t let anyone lead you astray with all sorts of novel and exotic teachings. It is more beautiful to feast on grace and be inwardly strengthened than to be obsessed with dietary rules which in themselves have no lasting benefit. 
Hebrews13:10 We feast on a sacrifice at our spiritual altar, but those who serve as priests in the old system of worship have no right to eat of it." 
Hebrews13:11 For the high priest carries the blood of animals into the holiest chamber as a sacrifice for sin, and then burns the bodies of the animals outside the city." 
Hebrews13:12 And Jesus, our sin-sacrifice, also suffered death outside the city walls to make us holy by his own blood." 
Hebrews13:13 So we must arise and join him outside the religious “walls” and bear his disgrace. 
Hebrews13:14 For we have no city here on earth to be our permanent home, but we seek the city that is destined to come." 
Hebrews13:15 So we no longer offer up a steady stream of blood sacrifices, but through Jesus, we will offer up to God a steady stream of praise sacrifices—these are “the lambs” we offer from our lips that celebrate his name!" 
Hebrews13:16 We will show mercy to the poor and not miss an opportunity to do acts of kindness for others, for these are the true sacrifices that delight God’s heart." 
Hebrews13:17 Obey your spiritual leaders and recognize their authority, for they keep watch over your soul without resting since they will have to give an account to God for their work. So it will benefit you when you make their work a pleasure and not a heavy burden." 
Hebrews13:18 And keep praying for us that we continue to live with a clear conscience, for we desire to live honorably in all that we do." 
Hebrews13:19 And I especially ask you to pray that God would send me back to you very soon. 
Hebrews13:20 Now may the God who brought us peace by raising from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ so that he would be the Great Shepherd of his flock; and by the power of the blood of the eternal covenant 
Hebrews13:21 may he work perfection into every part of you giving you all that you need to fulfill your destiny. And may he express through you all that is excellent and pleasing to him through your life-union with Jesus the Anointed One who is to receive all glory forever! Amen! 
Hebrews13:22 My dear brothers and sisters, I urge you to let your spirits flow through this message of love that I’ve written to you in these few words." 
Hebrews13:23 I want you to know that our brother Timothy is free again and as soon as he arrives here we’ll come together to see you. We extend our greetings to all your leaders and all the holy believers. 
Hebrews13:24 The Italian believers also send their greetings. 
Hebrews13:25 Now may God’s wonderful grace be poured out upon you all! Amen! 
James1:1 Greetings! My name is Jacob, and I’m a love-slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. I’m writing to all the twelve tribes of Israel who have been sown as seeds among the nations." 
James1:2 My fellow believers, when it seems as though you are facing nothing but difficulties, see it as an invaluable opportunity to experience the greatest joy that you can!" 
James1:3 For you know that when your faith is tested it stirs up in you the power of endurance. 
James1:4 And then as your endurance grows even stronger, it will release perfection into every part of your being until there is nothing missing and nothing lacking." 
James1:5 And if anyone longs to be wise, ask God for wisdom and he will give it! He won’t see your lack of wisdom as an opportunity to scold you over your failures but he will overwhelm your failures with his generous grace." 
James1:6 Just make sure you ask empowered by confident faith without doubting that you will receive. For the ambivalent person believes one minute and doubts the next. Being undecided makes you become like the rough seas driven and tossed by the wind. You’re up one minute and tossed down the next. 
James1:7 When you are half-hearted and wavering it leaves you unstable. Can you really expect to receive anything from the Lord when you’re in that condition? 
James1:8  
James1:9 The believer who is poor still has reasons to boast, for he has been placed on high." 
James1:10 But those who are rich should boast in how God has brought them low and humbled them, for all their earthly glory will one day fade away like a wildflower in the meadow." 
James1:11 For as the scorching heat of the sun causes the petals of the wildflower to fall off and lose its appearance of beauty, so the rich in the midst of their pursuit of wealth will wither away." 
James1:12 If your faith remains strong, even while surrounded by life’s difficulties, you will continue to experience the untold blessings of God! True happiness comes as you pass the test with faith, and receive the victorious crown of life promised to every lover of God!" 
James1:13 When you are tempted don’t ever say, “God is tempting me,” for God is incapable of being tempted by evil and he is never the source of temptation." 
James1:14 Instead it is each person’s own desires and thoughts that drag them into evil and lure them away into darkness. 
James1:15 Evil desires give birth to evil actions. And when sin is fully mature it can murder you! 
James1:16 So my friends, don’t be fooled by your own desires!" 
James1:17 Every gift God freely gives us is good and perfect, streaming down from the Father of lights, who shines from the heavens with no hidden shadow or darkness and is never subject to change." 
James1:18 God was delighted to give us birth by the truth of his infallible Word so that we would fulfill his chosen destiny for us and become the favorite ones out of all his creation! 
James1:19 My dearest brothers and sisters, take this to heart: Be quick to listen, but slow to speak. And be slow to become angry," 
James1:20 for human anger is never a legitimate tool to promote God’s righteous purpose. 
James1:21 So this is why we abandon everything morally impure and all forms of wicked conduct. Instead, with a sensitive spirit we absorb God’s Word, which has been implanted within our nature, for the Word of Life has power to continually deliver us." 
James1:22 Don’t just listen to the Word of Truth and not respond to it, for that is the essence of self-deception. So always let his Word become like poetry written and fulfilled by your life!" 
James1:23 If you listen to the Word and don’t live out the message you hear, you become like the person who looks in the mirror of the Word to discover the reflection of his face in the beginning." 
James1:24 You perceive how God sees you in the mirror of the Word, but then you go out and forget your divine origin." 
James1:25 But those who set their gaze deeply into the perfecting law of liberty are fascinated by and respond to the truth they hear and are strengthened by it—they experience God’s blessing in all that they do! 
James1:26 If someone believes they have a relationship with God but fails to guard his words then his heart is drifting away and his religion is shallow and empty. 
James1:27 True spirituality that is pure in the eyes of our Father God is to make a difference in the lives of the orphans, and widows in their troubles, and to refuse to be corrupted by the world’s values." 
James2:1 My dear brothers and sisters, fellow believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ—how could we say that we have faith in him and yet we favor one group of people above another?" 
James2:2 Suppose an influential man comes into your worship meeting wearing gold rings and expensive clothing, and also a homeless man in shabby clothes comes in." 
James2:3 If you show special attention to the rich man in expensive clothes and say, “Here’s a seat of honor for you right up front!” but you turn and say to the poor beggar dressed in rags, “You can stand over here,” or “Sit over there on the floor in the back,”" 
James2:4 then you’ve demonstrated gross prejudice among yourselves and used evil standards of judgment! 
James2:5 So listen carefully, my dear brothers and sisters, hasn’t God chosen the poor in the world’s eyes to be those who are rich in faith? And won’t they be the heirs of the kingdom-realm he promised to those who love him?" 
James2:6 But yet you insult and shun the poor in your efforts to impress the rich! Isn’t it the wealthy who exploit you and drag you into court? 
James2:7 Aren’t they the very ones who blaspheme the beautiful name of the One you now belong to? 
James2:8 Your calling is to fulfill the royal law of love as given to us in this Scripture: “You must love and value your neighbor as you love and value yourself!” For keeping this law is the noble way to live. 
James2:9 But when you show prejudice you commit sin and you violate this royal law of love! 
James2:10 For the one who attempts to keep all of the law of Moses but fails in just one point has become guilty of breaking the law in every respect! 
James2:11 For the same One who tells us, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not murder.” Now if you don’t commit adultery but do commit murder, you are still guilty as a law-breaker." 
James2:12 So we must both speak and act in every respect like those who are destined to be tried by the perfect law of liberty," 
James2:13 and remember that judgment is merciless for the one who judges others without mercy. So by showing mercy, you take dominion over judgment!" 
James2:14 My dear brothers and sisters, what good is it if someone claims to have faith but demonstrates no good works to prove it? How could this kind of faith save anyone?" 
James2:15 For example, if a brother or sister in the faith is poorly clothed and hungry" 
James2:16 and you leave them saying, “Good-bye. I hope you stay warm and have plenty to eat,” but you don’t provide them with a coat or even a cup of soup, what good is your faith?" 
James2:17 So then faith that doesn’t involve action is phony. 
James2:18 But someone might object and say, “One person has faith and another person has works.” Go ahead then and prove to me that you have faith without works and I will show you faith by my works as proof that I believe." 
James2:19 You can believe all you want that there is one true God, that’s wonderful! But even the demons know this and tremble with fear before him, yet they’re unchanged— they remain demons." 
James2:20 O feeble sons of Adam, do you need further evidence that faith divorced from good works is phony?" 
James2:21 Wasn’t our ancestor Abraham found righteous before God because of his works when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? 
James2:22 Can’t you see how his action cooperated with his faith and by his action faith found its full expression? 
James2:23 So in this way the Scripture was fulfilled: Because Abraham believed God, his faith was exchanged for God’s righteousness. So he became known as the lover of God!" 
James2:24 So now it’s clear that a person is seen as righteous in God’s eyes not merely by faith alone, but by his works." 
James2:25 And the same is true of the prostitute named Rahab who was found righteous in God’s eyes by her works, for she received the spies into her home and helped them escape from the city by another route." 
James2:26 For just as a human body without the spirit is a dead corpse, so faith without the expression of good works is dead!" 
James3:1 My dear brothers and sisters, don’t be so eager to become a teacher in the church since you know that we who teach are held to a higher standard of judgment." 
James3:2 We all fail in many areas, but especially with our words. Yet if we’re able to bridle the words we say we are powerful enough to control ourselves in every way, and that means our character is mature and fully developed." 
James3:3 Horses have bits and bridles in their mouths so that we can control and guide their large body. 
James3:4 And the same with mighty ships, though they are massive and driven by fierce winds, yet they are steered by a tiny rudder at the direction of the person at the helm." 
James3:5 And so the tongue is a small part of the body yet it carries great power! Just think of how a small flame can set a huge forest ablaze. 
James3:6 And the tongue is a fire! It can be compared to the sum total of wickedness and is the most dangerous part of our human body. It corrupts the entire body and is a hellish flame! It releases a fire that can burn throughout the course of human existence. 
James3:7 For every wild animal on earth including birds, creeping reptiles, and creatures of the sea and land have all been overpowered and tamed by humans," 
James3:8 but the tongue is not able to be tamed. It’s a fickle, unrestrained evil that spews out words full of toxic poison!" 
James3:9 We use our tongue to praise God our Father and then turn around and curse a person who was made in his very image! 
James3:10 Out of the same mouth we pour out words of praise one minute and curses the next. My brothers and sisters, this should never be!" 
James3:11 Would you look for olives hanging on a fig tree or go to pick figs from a grapevine? Is it possible that fresh and bitter water can flow out of the same spring? So neither can a bitter spring produce fresh water. 
James3:12  
James3:13 If you consider yourself to be wise and one who understands the ways of God, advertise it with a beautiful, fruitful life guided by wisdom’s gentleness. Never brag or boast about what you’ve done and you’ll prove that you’re truly wise." 
James3:14 But if there is bitter jealousy or competition hiding in your heart, then don’t deny it and try to compensate for it by boasting and being phony." 
James3:15 For that has nothing to do with God’s heavenly wisdom but can best be described as the wisdom of this world, both selfish and devilish." 
James3:16 So wherever jealousy and selfishness are uncovered, you will also find many troubles and every kind of meanness." 
James3:17 But the wisdom from above is always pure, filled with peace, considerate and teachable. It is filled with love and never displays prejudice or hypocrisy in any form" 
James3:18 and it always bears the beautiful harvest of righteousness! Good seeds of wisdom’s fruit will be planted with peaceful acts by those who cherish making peace. 
James4:1 What is the cause of your conflicts and quarrels with each other? Doesn’t the battle begin inside of you as you fight to have your own way and fulfill your own desires? 
James4:2 You jealously want what others have so you begin to see yourself as better than others. You scheme with envy and harm others to selfishly obtain what you crave—that’s why you quarrel and fight. And all the time you don’t obtain what you want because you won’t ask God for it! 
James4:3 And if you ask, you won’t receive it for you’re asking with corrupt motives, seeking only to fulfill your own selfish desires." 
James4:4 You have become spiritual adulterers who are having an affair, an unholy relationship with the world. Don’t you know that flirting with the world’s values places you at odds with God? Whoever chooses to be the world’s friend makes himself God’s enemy!" 
James4:5 Does the Scripture mean nothing to you that says, “The Spirit that God breathed into our hearts is a jealous Lover who intensely desires to have more and more of us”?" 
James4:6 But he continues to pour out more and more grace upon us. For it says, “God resists you when you are proud but continually pours out grace when you are humble.”" 
James4:7 So then, surrender to God. Stand up to the devil and resist him and he will flee in agony." 
James4:8 Move your heart closer and closer to God, and he will come even closer to you. But make sure you cleanse your life, you sinners, and keep your heart pure and stop doubting." 
James4:9 Feel the pain of your sin, be sorrowful and weep! Let your joking around be turned into mourning and your joy into deep humiliation." 
James4:10 Be willing to be made low before the Lord and he will exalt you! 
James4:11 Dear friends, as part of God’s family, never speak against another family member, for when you slander a brother or sister you violate God’s law of love. And your duty is not to make yourself a judge of the law of love by saying that it doesn’t apply to you, but your duty is to obey it!" 
James4:12 There is only one true Lawgiver and Judge, the One who has the power to save and destroy—so who do you think you are to judge your neighbor?" 
James4:13 Listen, those of you who are boasting, “Today or tomorrow we’ll go to another city and spend some time and go into business and make heaps of profit!”" 
James4:14 But you don’t have a clue what tomorrow may bring. For your fleeting life is but a warm breath of air that is visible in the cold only for a moment and then vanishes! 
James4:15 Instead you should say, “Our tomorrows are in the Lord’s hands and if he is willing we will live life to its fullest and do this or that.”" 
James4:16 But here you are, boasting in your ignorance, for to be presumptuous about what you’ll do tomorrow is evil!" 
James4:17 So if you know of an opportunity to do the right thing today, yet you refrain from doing it, you’re guilty of sin." 
James5:1 Listen all you who are rich, for it’s time to weep and howl over the misery that will overtake you!" 
James5:2 Your riches lie rotting, your fine clothing eaten by moths," 
James5:3 and your gold and silver are corroded as a witness against you. You have hoarded up treasure for the last days but it will become a fire to burn your flesh. 
James5:4 Listen! Can’t you hear the cries of the laborers over the wages you fraudulently held back from those who worked for you? The cries for justice of those you’ve cheated have reached the ears of the Lord of armies! 
James5:5 You have indulged yourselves with every luxury and pleasure this world offers, but you’re only stuffing your heart full for a day of slaughter." 
James5:6 You have condemned and murdered good and innocent people who had no power to defend themselves. 
James5:7 Meanwhile, brothers and sisters, we must be patient and filled with expectation as we wait for the appearing of the Lord. Think about the farmer who has to patiently wait for the earth’s harvest as it ripens because of the early and latter rains." 
James5:8 So you also, keep your hopes high and be patient, for the presence of the Lord is drawing closer." 
James5:9 Since each of you are part of God’s family never complain or grumble about each other so that judgment will not come on you, for the true Judge is near and very ready to appear!" 
James5:10 My brothers and sisters, take the prophets as your mentors. They have prophesied in the name of the Lord and it brought them great sufferings, yet they patiently endured." 
James5:11 We honor them as our heroes because they remained faithful even while enduring great sufferings. And you have heard of all that Job went through and we can now see that the Lord ultimately treated him with wonderful kindness, revealing how tenderhearted he really is!" 
James5:12 Above all we must be those who never need to verify our speech as truthful by swearing by the heavens or the earth or any other oath. But instead we must be so full of integrity that our “Yes” or “No” is convincing enough and we do not stumble into hypocrisy. 
James5:13 Are there any believers in your fellowship suffering great hardship and distress? Encourage them to pray! Are there happy, cheerful ones among you? Encourage them to sing out their praises!" 
James5:14 Are there any sick among you? Then ask the elders of the church to come and pray over the sick and anoint them with oil in the name of our Lord. 
James5:15 And the prayer of faith will heal the sick and the Lord will raise them up, and if they have committed sins they will be forgiven." 
James5:16 Confess and acknowledge how you have offended one another and then pray for one another to be instantly healed, for tremendous power is released through the passionate, heartfelt prayer of a godly believer!" 
James5:17 Elijah was a man with human frailties, just like all of us, but he prayed and received supernatural answers. He actually shut the heavens over the land so there would be no rain for three and a half years!" 
James5:18 Then he prayed again and the skies opened up over the land so that the rain came again and produced the harvest. 
James5:19 Finally, as members of God’s beloved family, we must go after the one who wanders from the truth and bring him back." 
James5:20 For the one who restores the sinning believer back to God from the error of his way, gives back to his soul life from the dead, and covers over countless sins by their demonstration of love!" 
1Peter1:1 From Peter, an apostle of Jesus the Anointed One, to the chosen ones who have been scattered like “seed” into the nations living as refugees in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, and throughout the Roman provinces of Asia and Bithynia." 
1Peter1:2 You are not forgotten, for you have been chosen and destined by Father God. The Holy Spirit has set you apart to be God’s holy ones, obedient followers of Jesus Christ who have been gloriously sprinkled with his blood. May God’s delightful grace and peace cascade over you many times over!" 
1Peter1:3 Celebrate with praises the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has shown us his extravagant mercy. For his fountain of mercy has given us a new life—we are reborn to experience a living, energetic hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead." 
1Peter1:4 We are reborn into a perfect inheritance that can never perish, never be defiled, and never diminish. It is promised and preserved forever in the heavenly realm for you!" 
1Peter1:5 Through our faith, the mighty power of God constantly guards us until our full salvation is ready to be revealed in the last time." 
1Peter1:6 May the thought of this cause you to jump for joy, even though lately you’ve had to put up with the grief of many trials." 
1Peter1:7 But these only reveal the sterling core of your faith, which is far more valuable than gold that perishes, for even gold is refined by fire. Your authentic faith will result in even more praise, glory, and honor when Jesus the Anointed One is revealed." 
1Peter1:8 You love him passionately although you have not seen him, but through believing in him you are saturated with an ecstatic joy, indescribably sublime and immersed in glory." 
1Peter1:9 For you are reaping the harvest of your faith—the full salvation promised you—your souls’ victory! 
1Peter1:10 This salvation was the focus of the prophets who prophesied of this outpouring of grace that was destined for you. They made a careful search and investigation of the meaning of their God-given prophecies 
1Peter1:11 as they probed into the mysteries of who would fulfill them and the time period when it would all take place. The Spirit of the Anointed One was in them and was pointing prophetically to the sufferings that Christ was destined to suffer and the glories that would be released afterward. 
1Peter1:12 God revealed to the prophets that their ministry was not for their own benefit but for yours. And now, you have heard these things from the evangelists who preached the gospel to you through the power of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven—the gospel containing wonderful mysteries that even the angels long to get a glimpse of." 
1Peter1:13 So then, prepare your hearts and minds for action! Stay alert and fix your hope firmly on the marvelous grace that is coming to you. For when Jesus Christ is unveiled, a greater measure of grace will be released to you." 
1Peter1:14 As God’s obedient children, never again shape your lives by the desires that you followed when you didn’t know better." 
1Peter1:15 Instead, shape your lives to become like the Holy One who called you." 
1Peter1:16 For Scripture says: “You are to be holy, because I am holy.”" 
1Peter1:17 Since you call on him as your heavenly Father, the impartial Judge who judges according to each one’s works, live each day with holy awe and reverence throughout your time on earth." 
1Peter1:18 For you know that your lives were ransomed once and for all from the empty and futile way of life handed down from generation to generation. It was not a ransom payment of silver and gold, which eventually perishes," 
1Peter1:19 but the precious blood of Christ—who like a spotless, unblemished lamb was sacrificed for us." 
1Peter1:20 This was part of God’s plan, for he was chosen and destined for this before the foundation of the earth was laid, but he has been made manifest in these last days for you." 
1Peter1:21 It is through him that you now believe in God, who raised him from the dead and glorified him, so that you would fasten your faith and hope in God alone." 
1Peter1:22 Now, because of your obedience to the truth, you have purified your very souls, and this empowers you to be full of love for your fellow believers. So express this sincere love toward one another passionately and with a pure heart." 
1Peter1:23 For through the eternal and living Word of God you have been born again. And this “seed” that he planted within you can never be destroyed but will live and grow inside of you forever. For: 
1Peter1:24 Human beings are frail and temporary, like grass, and the glory of man fleeting like blossoms of the field. The grass dries and withers and the flowers fall off," 
1Peter1:25 but the Word of the Lord endures forever! And this is the Word that was announced to you! 
1Peter2:1 So abandon every form of evil, deceit, hypocrisy, feelings of jealousy and slander." 
1Peter2:2 In the same way that nursing infants cry for milk, you must intensely crave the pure spiritual milk of God’s Word. For this “milk” will cause you to grow into maturity, fully nourished and strong for life —" 
1Peter2:3 especially now that you have had a taste of the goodness of Yahweh and have experienced his kindness. 
1Peter2:4 So keep coming to him who is the Living Stone —though he was rejected and discarded by men but chosen by God and is priceless in God’s sight. 
1Peter2:5 Come and be his “living stones” who are continually being assembled into a sanctuary for God. For now you serve as holy priests, offering up spiritual sacrifices that he readily accepts through Jesus Christ." 
1Peter2:6 For it says in Scripture: Look! I lay a cornerstone in Zion, a chosen and priceless stone! And whoever believes in him will certainly not be disappointed." 
1Peter2:7 As believers you know his great worth—indeed, his preciousness is imparted to you. But for those who do not believe: The stone that the builders rejected and discarded has now become the cornerstone" 
1Peter2:8 And A stone that makes them stumble and a rock to trip over. They keep stumbling over the message because they refuse to believe it. And this they were destined to do. 
1Peter2:9 But you are God’s chosen treasure —priests who are kings, a spiritual “nation” set apart as God’s devoted ones. He called you out of darkness to experience his marvelous light, and now he claims you as his very own. He did this so that you would broadcast his glorious wonders throughout the world." 
1Peter2:10 For at one time you were not God’s people, but now you are. At one time you knew nothing of God’s mercy, because you hadn’t received it yet, but now you are drenched with it!" 
1Peter2:11 My divinely loved friends, since you are resident aliens and foreigners in this world, I appeal to you to divorce yourselves from the evil desires that wage war within you." 
1Peter2:12 Live honorable lives as you mix with unbelievers, even though they accuse you of being evildoers. For they will see your beautiful works and have a reason to glorify God in the day he visits us." 
1Peter2:13 In order to honor the Lord, you must respect and defer to the authority of every human institution, whether it be the highest ruler" 
1Peter2:14 or the governors he puts in place to punish lawbreakers and to praise those who do what’s right. 
1Peter2:15 For it is God’s will for you to silence the ignorance of foolish people by doing what is right. 
1Peter2:16 As God’s loving servants, you should live in complete freedom, but never use your freedom as a cover-up for evil." 
1Peter2:17 Recognize the value of every person and continually show love to every believer. Live your lives with great reverence and in holy awe of God. Honor your rulers. 
1Peter2:18 Those who are servants, submit to the authority of those who are your masters—not only to those who are kind and gentle but even to those who are hard and difficult." 
1Peter2:19 You find God’s favor by deciding to please God even when you endure hardships because of unjust suffering. 
1Peter2:20 For what merit is it to endure mistreatment for wrongdoing? Yet if you are mistreated when you do what is right, and you faithfully endure it, this is commendable before God." 
1Peter2:21 In fact, you were called to live this way, because Christ also suffered in your place, leaving you his example for you to follow." 
1Peter2:22 He never sinned and he never spoke deceitfully. 
1Peter2:23 When he was verbally abused, he did not return with an insult; when he suffered, he would not threaten retaliation. Jesus faithfully entrusted himself into the hands of God, who judges righteously." 
1Peter2:24 He himself carried our sins in his body on the cross so that we would be dead to sin and live for righteousness. Our instant healing flowed from his wounding. 
1Peter2:25 You were like sheep that continually wandered away, but now you have returned to the true Shepherd of your lives—the kind Guardian who lovingly watches over your souls." 
1Peter3:1 And now let me speak to the wives. Be devoted to your own husbands, so that even if some of them do not obey the Word of God, your kind conduct may win them over without you saying a thing." 
1Peter3:2 For when they observe your pure, godly life before God, it will impact them deeply." 
1Peter3:3 Let your true beauty come from your inner personality, not a focus on the external. For lasting beauty comes from a gentle and peaceful spirit, which is precious in God’s sight and is much more important than the outward adornment of elaborate hair, jewelry, and fine clothes." 
1Peter3:4  
1Peter3:5 Holy women of long ago who had set their hopes in God beautified themselves with lives lived in deference to their own husbands’ authority. 
1Peter3:6 For example, our “mother,” Sarah, devoted herself to her husband, Abraham, and even called him “master.” And you have become her daughters when you do what is right without fear and intimidation." 
1Peter3:7 Husbands, you in turn must treat your wives with tenderness, viewing them as feminine partners who deserve to be honored, for they are co-heirs with you of the “ divine grace of life,” so that nothing will hinder your prayers." 
1Peter3:8 Now, this is the goal: to live in harmony with one another and demonstrate affectionate love, sympathy, and kindness toward other believers. Let humility describe who you are as you dearly love one another." 
1Peter3:9 Never retaliate when someone treats you wrongly, nor insult those who insult you, but instead, respond by speaking a blessing over them—because a blessing is what God promised to give you." 
1Peter3:10 For the Scriptures tell us: Whoever wants to embrace true life and find beauty in each day 
1Peter3:11 must stop speaking evil, hurtful words and never deceive in what they say. Always turn from what is wrong and cultivate what is good; eagerly pursue peace in every relationship, making it your prize." 
1Peter3:12 For the eyes of the Lord Yahweh rest upon the godly, and his heart responds to their prayers. But he turns his back on those who practice evil." 
1Peter3:13 Why would anyone harm you if you’re passionate and devoted to pleasing God? 
1Peter3:14 But even if you happen to suffer for doing what is right, you will have the joyful experience of the blessing of God. And Don’t be intimidated or terrified by those who would terrify you." 
1Peter3:15 But give reverent honor in your hearts to the Anointed One and treat him as the holy Master of your lives. And if anyone asks about the hope living within you, always be ready to explain your faith" 
1Peter3:16 with gentleness and respect. Maintain a clean conscience, so that those who slander you for living a pure life in Christ will have to lie about you and will be ashamed because of their slander." 
1Peter3:17 For it is better to suffer for doing good, if it is in God’s plan, than for doing evil." 
1Peter3:18 Christ suffered and died for sins once and for all—the innocent for the guilty —to bring you near to God by his body being put to death and by being raised to life by the Spirit. 
1Peter3:19 He went in the spiritual realm and made a proclamation to the spirits in prison 
1Peter3:20 because of their disobedience of long ago. For during the time of Noah God patiently waited while the ark was being prepared, but only a few were brought safely through the floodwaters: a total of eight souls." 
1Peter3:21 This was a prophetic picture of the immersion that now saves you—not a bathing of the physical body but rather the response of a good conscience before God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ," 
1Peter3:22 who is now in heaven at the place of supreme authority next to God. The very powers of heaven, including every angel and authority, now yield in submission to him." 
1Peter4:1 Since Christ, though innocent, suffered in his flesh for you, now you also must be a prepared soldier, having the same mind-set, for whoever has died in his body is done with sin." 
1Peter4:2 So live the rest of your earthly life no longer concerned with human desires but consumed with what brings pleasure to God. 
1Peter4:3 For you have already spent enough time doing what unbelievers love to do—living in debauchery, sensuality, partying, drunkenness, wild drinking parties, and the worship of demons." 
1Peter4:4 They marvel that you no longer rush to join them in the excesses of their corrupt lifestyles, and so they vilify you." 
1Peter4:5 But one day they will have to give an account to the one who is destined to judge the living and the dead. 
1Peter4:6 This is the reason the gospel was preached to the martyrs before they gave their lives. Even though they were judged by human standards, now they live in spirit by God’s standards." 
1Peter4:7 Since we are approaching the end of all things, be intentional, purposeful, and self-controlled so that you can be given to prayer." 
1Peter4:8 Above all, constantly echo God’s intense love for one another, for love will be a canopy over a multitude of sins." 
1Peter4:9 Be compassionate to foreigners without complaining. 
1Peter4:10 Every believer has received grace gifts, so use them to serve one another as faithful stewards of the many-colored tapestry of God’s grace." 
1Peter4:11 For example, if you have a speaking gift, speak as though God were speaking his words through you. If you have the gift of serving, do it passionately with the strength God gives you, so that in everything God alone will be glorified through Jesus Christ. For to him belong the power and the glory forever throughout all ages! Amen." 
1Peter4:12 Beloved friends, if life gets extremely difficult, with many tests, don’t be bewildered as though something strange were overwhelming you." 
1Peter4:13 Instead, continue to rejoice, for you, in a measure, have shared in the sufferings of the Anointed One so that you can share in the revelation of his glory and celebrate with even greater gladness!" 
1Peter4:14 If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are greatly blessed, because the Spirit of glory and power, who is the Spirit of God, rests upon you." 
1Peter4:15 Let none of you merit suffering as a murderer, or thief, or criminal, or as one who meddles in the affairs of others." 
1Peter4:16 If you suffer for being a Christian, don’t consider it a disgrace but a privilege. Glorify God because you carry the Anointed One’s name." 
1Peter4:17 For the time is ripe for judgment to begin in God’s own household. And if it starts with us, what will be the fate of those who refuse to obey the gospel of God?" 
1Peter4:18 And: If the righteous are barely saved, what will become of the wicked and godless?" 
1Peter4:19 So then, those who suffer for following God’s will should enfold their lives into the Creator, who will never fail them, and continue to always do what is right." 
1Peter5:1 Now, I encourage you as an elder, an eyewitness of the sufferings of Christ, and one who shares in the glory that is about to be unveiled. I urge my fellow elders among you" 
1Peter5:2 to be compassionate shepherds who tenderly care for God’s flock and who feed them well, for you have the responsibility to guide, protect, and oversee. Consider it a joyous pleasure and not merely a religious duty. Lead from the heart under God’s leadership—not as a way to gain finances dishonestly but as a way to eagerly and cheerfully serve." 
1Peter5:3 Don’t be controlling tyrants but lead others by your beautiful examples to the flock. 
1Peter5:4 And when the Shepherd-King appears, you will win the victor’s crown of glory that never fades away." 
1Peter5:5 In the same way, the younger ones should willingly support the leadership of the elders. In every relationship, each of you must wrap around yourself the apron of a humble servant. Because: God resists you when you are proud but multiplies grace and favor when you are humble." 
1Peter5:6 If you bow low in God’s awesome presence, he will eventually exalt you as you leave the timing in his hands." 
1Peter5:7 Pour out all your worries and stress upon him and leave them there, for he always tenderly cares for you." 
1Peter5:8 Be well balanced and always alert, because your enemy, the devil, roams around incessantly, like a roaring lion looking for its prey to devour." 
1Peter5:9 Take a decisive stand against him and resist his every attack with strong, vigorous faith. For you know that your believing brothers and sisters around the world are experiencing the same kinds of troubles you endure." 
1Peter5:10 And then, after your brief suffering, the God of all loving grace, who has called you to share in his eternal glory in Christ, will personally and powerfully restore you and make you stronger than ever. Yes, he will set you firmly in place and build you up." 
1Peter5:11 And he has all the power needed to do this —forever! Amen. 
1Peter5:12 I, Peter, with the help of Silas, whom I consider a trustworthy, faith-filled brother, have written you this short letter so that I might encourage you and personally testify that this is the true, dependable grace of God. Stand fast in this grace." 
1Peter5:13 She who is in Babylon, who is co-elect with you, sends her greetings, along with Mark, my son." 
1Peter5:13 She who is in Babylon, who is co-elect with you, sends her greetings, along with Mark, my son." 
1Peter5:14 Greet one another with a kiss of peace. Peace to all who are in life union with Christ. Amen. 
2Peter1:1 This letter is from Simeon Peter, a loving servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. I am writing to those who have been given a faith as equally precious as ours through the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ." 
2Peter1:2 May grace and perfect peace cascade over you as you live in the rich knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. 
2Peter1:3 Everything we could ever need for life and godliness has already been deposited in us by his divine power. For all this was lavished upon us through the rich experience of knowing him who has called us by name and invited us to come to him through a glorious manifestation of his goodness. 
2Peter1:4 As a result of this, he has given you magnificent promises that are beyond all price, so that through the power of these tremendous promises we can experience partnership with the divine nature, by which you have escaped the corrupt desires that are of the world." 
2Peter1:5 So devote yourselves to lavishly supplementing your faith with goodness, and to goodness add understanding," 
2Peter1:6 and to understanding add the strength of self-control, and to self-control add patient endurance, and to patient endurance add godliness," 
2Peter1:7 and to godliness add mercy toward your brothers and sisters, and to mercy toward others add unending love." 
2Peter1:8 Since these virtues are already planted deep within, and you possess them in abundant supply, they will keep you from being inactive or fruitless in your pursuit of knowing Jesus Christ more intimately." 
2Peter1:9 But if anyone lacks these things, he is blind, constantly closing his eyes to the mysteries of our faith, and forgetting his innocence —for his past sins have been washed away." 
2Peter1:10 For this reason, beloved ones, be eager to confirm and validate that God has invited you to salvation and claimed you as his own. If you do these things, you will never stumble." 
2Peter1:11 As a result, the kingdom’s gates will open wide to you as God choreographs your triumphant entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus the Messiah." 
2Peter1:12 I won’t hesitate to continually remind you of these truths, even though you are aware of them and are well established in the present measure of truth you have already embraced." 
2Peter1:13 And as long as I live I will continue to awaken you with this reminder," 
2Peter1:14 since our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One, has clearly revealed that my departure is near." 
2Peter1:15 Indeed, I’m passionate to share these things with you so that you will always remember them after my exodus from this life." 
2Peter1:16 We were not retelling some masterfully crafted legend when we informed you of the power and appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, for we saw his magnificence and splendor unveiled before our very eyes." 
2Peter1:17 Yes, Father God lavished upon him radiant glory and honor when his distinct voice spoke out of the realm of majestic glory, endorsing him with these words: This is my cherished Son, marked by my love. All my delight is found in him!" 
2Peter1:18 And we ourselves heard that voice resound from the heavens while we were with him on the holy mountain. 
2Peter1:19 And so we have been given the prophetic word—the written message of the prophets, made more reliable and fully validated by the confirming voice of God on the Mount of Transfiguration. And you will continue to do well if you stay focused on it. For this prophetic message is like a piercing light shining in a gloomy place until the dawning of a new day, when the Morning Star rises in your hearts." 
2Peter1:20 You must understand this at the outset: Interpretation of scriptural prophecy requires the Holy Spirit, for it does not originate from someone’s own imagination." 
2Peter1:21 No true prophecy comes from human initiative but is inspired by the moving of the Holy Spirit upon those who spoke the message that came from God. 
2Peter2:1 In the past there arose false prophets among God’s people, just as there will continue to be false teachers who will secretly infiltrate in your midst to divide you, bringing with them their destructive heresies. They will even deny the Master, who paid the price for them, bringing swift destruction on themselves." 
2Peter2:2 Many will follow immoral lifestyles. Because of these corrupt false teachers, the way of truth will be slandered." 
2Peter2:3 They are only out for themselves, ready to exploit you for their own gain through their cunning arguments. Their condemnation has been a long time coming. But their destruction does not slumber or sit idly by, for it is sure to come." 
2Peter2:4 Now, don’t forget, God had no pity for the angels when they sinned but threw them into the lowest, darkest dungeon of gloom and locked them in chains, where they are firmly held until the judgment of torment." 
2Peter2:5 And he did not spare the former world in the days of Noah when he sent a flood to destroy a depraved world (although he protected Noah, the preacher of righteousness, along with seven members of his family)." 
2Peter2:6 And don’t forget that he reduced to ashes the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, condemning them to ruin and destruction. God appointed them to be examples as to what is coming to the ungodly." 
2Peter2:7 Yet he rescued a righteous man, Lot, suffering the indignity of the unbridled lusts of the lawless." 
2Peter2:8 For righteous Lot lived among them day after day, distressed in his righteous soul by the rebellious deeds he saw and heard." 
2Peter2:9 If the Lord Yahweh rescued Lot, he knows how to continually rescue the godly from their trials and to reserve the ungodly for punishment on the day of judgment." 
2Peter2:10 And this especially applies to those who live their lives despising authorities and who abandon themselves to chasing the depraved lusts of their flesh. They are willfully arrogant and insolent, unafraid to insult the glorious ones." 
2Peter2:11 Yet even angels, who are greater than they in power and strength, do not dare slander them before the Lord." 
2Peter2:12 These individuals are nothing but brute beasts—irrational creatures, born in the wild to be caught and destroyed—and they will perish like beasts. They are professional insulters, who slander whatever they don’t understand, and in their destruction they will be destroyed." 
2Peter2:13 For all the evil they have done will come crashing down on them. They consider it their great pleasure to carouse in broad daylight. When they come to your love feasts they are but stains and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions as they feast with you." 
2Peter2:14 They are addicted to adultery, with eyes that are insatiable, with sins that never end. They seduce the vulnerable and are experts in their greed—they are but children of a curse!" 
2Peter2:15 They have wandered off the main road and have gone astray, because they are prophets who love profit—the wages they earn by wrongdoing. They are following the example of Balaam, son of Beor," 
2Peter2:16 who was rebuked for evil by a donkey incapable of speech yet that spoke with a human voice and restrained the prophet’s madness. 
2Peter2:17 These people are dried-up riverbeds, waterless clouds pushed along by stormy winds—the deepest darkness of gloom has been prepared for them." 
2Peter2:18 They spout off with their grandiose, impressive nonsense. Consumed with the lusts of the flesh, they lure back into sin those who recently escaped from their error." 
2Peter2:19 They promise others freedom, yet they themselves are slaves to corruption, for people are slaves to whatever overcomes them." 
2Peter2:20 Those who escape the corrupting forces of this world system through the experience of knowing about our Lord and Savior, Jesus the Messiah, then go back into entanglement with them and are defeated by them, becoming worse off than they were to start with." 
2Peter2:21 It would have been much better for them never to have experienced the way of righteousness than to know it and then turn away from the sacred obligation that was given to them. 
2Peter2:22 They become illustrations of the true proverb: A dog will return to his own vomit and a washed pig to its rolling in the mud. 
2Peter3:1 Beloved friends, this is now the second letter I have written to you in which I’ve attempted to stir you up and awaken you to a proper mind-set." 
2Peter3:2 So never forget both the prophecies spoken by the holy prophets of old and the teaching of our Lord and Savior spoken by your apostles. 
2Peter3:3 Above all, you must understand that in the last days mockers will multiply, chasing after their evil desires." 
2Peter3:4 They will say, “So what about this promise of his coming? Our ancestors are dead and buried, yet everything is still the same as it was since from the beginning of time until now.”" 
2Peter3:5 But they conveniently overlook that from the beginning, the heavens and earth were created by God’s word. He spoke and the dry ground separated from the waters." 
2Peter3:6 Then long afterward he destroyed the world with a tremendous flood by those very waters. 
2Peter3:7 And now, by the same powerful word, the heavens and the earth are reserved for fire, being kept for judgment day, when all the ungodly will perish." 
2Peter3:8 So, dear friends, don’t let this one thing escape your notice: a single day counts like a thousand years to the Lord Yahweh, and a thousand years counts as one day." 
2Peter3:9 This means that, contrary to man’s perspective, the Lord is not late with his promise to return, as some measure lateness. But rather, his “delay” simply reveals his loving patience toward you, because he does not want any to perish but all to come to repentance." 
2Peter3:10 The day of the Lord will come and take everyone by surprise—as unexpected as a home invasion. The atmosphere will be set on fire and vanish with a horrific roar, and the heavenly bodies will melt away as in a tremendous blaze. The earth and every activity of man will be laid bare." 
2Peter3:11 Since all these things are on the verge of being dismantled, don’t you see how vital it is to live a holy life? We must be consumed with godliness" 
2Peter3:12 while we anticipate and help to speed up the coming of the day of God, when the atmosphere will be set on fire and the heavenly bodies consumed in a blaze." 
2Peter3:13 But as we wait, we trust in God’s royal proclamation to be fulfilled. There are coming heavens new in quality, and an earth new in quality, where righteousness will be fully at home." 
2Peter3:14 So, my beloved friends, with all that you have to look forward to, may you be eager to be found living pure lives when you come into his presence, without blemish and filled with peace." 
2Peter3:15 And keep in mind that our Lord’s extraordinary patience simply means more opportunity for salvation, just as our dear brother Paul wrote to you with the wisdom that God gave him." 
2Peter3:16 He consistently speaks of these things in all of his letters, even though he writes some concepts that are overwhelming to our understanding, which the unlearned and unstable love to twist to their spiritual ruin, as they do to other Scriptures." 
2Peter3:17 As for you, divinely loved ones, since you are forewarned of these things, be careful that you are not led astray by the error of the lawless and lose your firm grip on the truth." 
2Peter3:18 But continue to grow and increase in God’s grace and intimacy with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. May he receive all the glory both now and until the day eternity begins. Amen!" 
1John1:1 We saw him with our very own eyes. We gazed upon him and heard him speak. Our hands actually touched him, the one who was from the beginning, the Living Expression of God." 
1John1:1 We saw him with our very own eyes. We gazed upon him and heard him speak. Our hands actually touched him, the one who was from the beginning, the Living Expression of God." 
1John1:2 This Life-Giver was made visible and we have seen him. We testify to this truth: the eternal Life-Giver lived face-to-face with the Father and has now dawned upon us. 
1John1:2 This Life-Giver was made visible and we have seen him. We testify to this truth: the eternal Life-Giver lived face-to-face with the Father and has now dawned upon us. 
1John1:3 So we proclaim to you what we have seen and heard about this Life-Giver so that we may share and enjoy this life together. For truly our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1John1:3 So we proclaim to you what we have seen and heard about this Life-Giver so that we may share and enjoy this life together. For truly our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus, the Anointed One." 
1John1:4 We are writing these things to you because we want to release to you our fullness of joy. 
1John1:4 We are writing these things to you because we want to release to you our fullness of joy. 
1John1:5 This is the life-giving message we heard him share and it’s still ringing in our ears. We now repeat his words to you: God is pure light. You will never find even a trace of darkness in him. 
1John1:5 This is the life-giving message we heard him share and it’s still ringing in our ears. We now repeat his words to you: God is pure light. You will never find even a trace of darkness in him. 
1John1:6 If we claim that we share life with him, but keep walking in the realm of darkness, we’re fooling ourselves and not living the truth." 
1John1:6 If we claim that we share life with him, but keep walking in the realm of darkness, we’re fooling ourselves and not living the truth." 
1John1:7 But if we keep living in the pure light that surrounds him, we share unbroken fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, continually cleanses us from all sin." 
1John1:7 But if we keep living in the pure light that surrounds him, we share unbroken fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, continually cleanses us from all sin." 
1John1:8 If we boast that we have no sin, we’re only fooling ourselves and are strangers to the truth." 
1John1:8 If we boast that we have no sin, we’re only fooling ourselves and are strangers to the truth." 
1John1:9 But if we freely admit our sins when his light uncovers them, he will be faithful to forgive us every time. God is just to forgive us our sins because of Christ, and he will continue to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:9 But if we freely admit our sins when his light uncovers them, he will be faithful to forgive us every time. God is just to forgive us our sins because of Christ, and he will continue to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:10 If we claim that we’re not guilty of sin when God uncovers it with his light, we make him a liar and his word is not in us." 
1John1:10 If we claim that we’re not guilty of sin when God uncovers it with his light, we make him a liar and his word is not in us." 
1John2:1 You are my dear children, and I write these things to you so that you won’t sin. But if anyone does sin, we continually have a forgiving Redeemer who is face-to-face with the Father: Jesus Christ, the Righteous One." 
1John2:1 You are my dear children, and I write these things to you so that you won’t sin. But if anyone does sin, we continually have a forgiving Redeemer who is face-to-face with the Father: Jesus Christ, the Righteous One." 
1John2:2 He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins of the whole world." 
1John2:2 He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins of the whole world." 
1John2:3 Here’s how we can be sure that we’ve truly come to know God: if we keep his commands. 
1John2:3 Here’s how we can be sure that we’ve truly come to know God: if we keep his commands. 
1John2:4 If someone claims, “I have come to know God by experience,” yet doesn’t keep God’s commands, he is a phony and the truth finds no place in him." 
1John2:4 If someone claims, “I have come to know God by experience,” yet doesn’t keep God’s commands, he is a phony and the truth finds no place in him." 
1John2:5 But the love of God will be perfected within the one who obeys God’s Word. We can be sure that we’ve truly come to live in intimacy with God," 
1John2:5 But the love of God will be perfected within the one who obeys God’s Word. We can be sure that we’ve truly come to live in intimacy with God," 
1John2:6 not just by saying, “I am intimate with God,” but by walking in the footsteps of Jesus." 
1John2:6 not just by saying, “I am intimate with God,” but by walking in the footsteps of Jesus." 
1John2:7 Beloved, I’m not writing a new commandment to you, but an old one that you had from the beginning, and you’ve already heard it." 
1John2:7 Beloved, I’m not writing a new commandment to you, but an old one that you had from the beginning, and you’ve already heard it." 
1John2:8 Yet, in a sense, it is a new commandment, as its truth is made manifest both in Christ and in you, because the darkness is disappearing and the true light is already blazing." 
1John2:8 Yet, in a sense, it is a new commandment, as its truth is made manifest both in Christ and in you, because the darkness is disappearing and the true light is already blazing." 
1John2:9 Anyone who says, “I am in the light,” while holding hatred in his heart toward a fellow believer is still in the darkness." 
1John2:9 Anyone who says, “I am in the light,” while holding hatred in his heart toward a fellow believer is still in the darkness." 
1John2:10 But the one who truly loves a fellow believer lives in the light, and there is nothing in him that will cause someone else to stumble." 
1John2:10 But the one who truly loves a fellow believer lives in the light, and there is nothing in him that will cause someone else to stumble." 
1John2:11 But whoever hates a fellow believer lives in the darkness—stumbling around in the dark with no clue where he is going, for he is blinded by the darkness." 
1John2:11 But whoever hates a fellow believer lives in the darkness—stumbling around in the dark with no clue where he is going, for he is blinded by the darkness." 
1John2:12 I remind you, dear children: your sins have been permanently removed because of the power of his name." 
1John2:12 I remind you, dear children: your sins have been permanently removed because of the power of his name." 
1John2:13 I remind you, fathers and mothers: you have a relationship with the One who has existed from the beginning. And I remind you, young people: you have defeated the Evil One." 
1John2:13 I remind you, fathers and mothers: you have a relationship with the One who has existed from the beginning. And I remind you, young people: you have defeated the Evil One." 
1John2:14 I write these things to you, dear children, because you truly have a relationship with the Father. I write these things, fathers and mothers, because you have had a true relationship with him who is from the beginning. And I write these things, young people, because you are strong, the Word of God is treasured in your hearts, and you have defeated the Evil One." 
1John2:14 I write these things to you, dear children, because you truly have a relationship with the Father. I write these things, fathers and mothers, because you have had a true relationship with him who is from the beginning. And I write these things, young people, because you are strong, the Word of God is treasured in your hearts, and you have defeated the Evil One." 
1John2:15 Don’t set the affections of your heart on this world or in loving the things of the world. The love of the Father and the love of the world are incompatible. 
1John2:15 Don’t set the affections of your heart on this world or in loving the things of the world. The love of the Father and the love of the world are incompatible. 
1John2:16 For all that the world can offer us—the gratification of our flesh, the allurement of the things of the world, and the obsession with status and importance —none of these things come from the Father but from the world." 
1John2:16 For all that the world can offer us—the gratification of our flesh, the allurement of the things of the world, and the obsession with status and importance —none of these things come from the Father but from the world." 
1John2:17 This world and its desires are in the process of passing away, but those who love to do the will of God live forever." 
1John2:17 This world and its desires are in the process of passing away, but those who love to do the will of God live forever." 
1John2:18 Dear children, the end of this age is near! You have heard that Antichrist is arising, and in fact, many enemies of Christ have already appeared, and this is how we know that we are living in the closing hour of this age." 
1John2:18 Dear children, the end of this age is near! You have heard that Antichrist is arising, and in fact, many enemies of Christ have already appeared, and this is how we know that we are living in the closing hour of this age." 
1John2:19 For even though they were once a part of us, they withdrew from us because they were never really of our number. For if they had truly belonged to us they would have continued with us. By leaving our community of believers they made it obvious that they never really belonged to us." 
1John2:19 For even though they were once a part of us, they withdrew from us because they were never really of our number. For if they had truly belonged to us they would have continued with us. By leaving our community of believers they made it obvious that they never really belonged to us." 
1John2:20 But the Holy One has anointed you and you all know the truth. 
1John2:20 But the Holy One has anointed you and you all know the truth. 
1John2:21 So I’m writing to you not because you don’t know the truth, but because you do know it, and no lie belongs to the truth." 
1John2:21 So I’m writing to you not because you don’t know the truth, but because you do know it, and no lie belongs to the truth." 
1John2:22 Who is the real liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ. He is the real antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son." 
1John2:22 Who is the real liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ. He is the real antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son." 
1John2:23 Whoever rejects the Son rejects the Father. Whoever embraces the Son embraces the Father also. 
1John2:23 Whoever rejects the Son rejects the Father. Whoever embraces the Son embraces the Father also. 
1John2:24 So you must be sure to keep the message burning in your hearts; that is, the message of life you heard from the beginning. If you do, you will always be living in close fellowship with the Son and with the Father." 
1John2:24 So you must be sure to keep the message burning in your hearts; that is, the message of life you heard from the beginning. If you do, you will always be living in close fellowship with the Son and with the Father." 
1John2:25 And he himself has promised us the never-ending life of the ages to come! 
1John2:25 And he himself has promised us the never-ending life of the ages to come! 
1John2:26 I’ve written these things about those who are attempting to lead you astray. 
1John2:26 I’ve written these things about those who are attempting to lead you astray. 
1John2:27 But the wonderful anointing you have received from God is so much greater than their deception and now lives in you. There’s no need for anyone to keep teaching you. His anointing teaches you all that you need to know, for it will lead you into truth, not a counterfeit. So just as the anointing has taught you, remain in him." 
1John2:27 But the wonderful anointing you have received from God is so much greater than their deception and now lives in you. There’s no need for anyone to keep teaching you. His anointing teaches you all that you need to know, for it will lead you into truth, not a counterfeit. So just as the anointing has taught you, remain in him." 
1John2:28 And now, dear children, remain in him, so that when he is revealed we may have joyful confidence and not be ashamed when we stand before him at his appearing." 
1John2:28 And now, dear children, remain in him, so that when he is revealed we may have joyful confidence and not be ashamed when we stand before him at his appearing." 
1John2:29 If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who lives in righteousness has been divinely fathered by him." 
1John2:29 If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who lives in righteousness has been divinely fathered by him." 
1John3:1 Look with wonder at the depth of the Father’s marvelous love that he has lavished on us! He has called us and made us his very own beloved children. The reason the world doesn’t recognize who we are is that they didn’t recognize him. 
1John3:1 Look with wonder at the depth of the Father’s marvelous love that he has lavished on us! He has called us and made us his very own beloved children. The reason the world doesn’t recognize who we are is that they didn’t recognize him. 
1John3:2 Beloved, we are God’s children right now; however, it is not yet apparent what we will become. But we do know that when it is finally made visible, we will be just like him, for we will see him as he truly is." 
1John3:2 Beloved, we are God’s children right now; however, it is not yet apparent what we will become. But we do know that when it is finally made visible, we will be just like him, for we will see him as he truly is." 
1John3:3 And all who focus their hope on him will always be purifying themselves, just as Jesus is pure." 
1John3:3 And all who focus their hope on him will always be purifying themselves, just as Jesus is pure." 
1John3:4 Anyone who indulges in sin lives in moral anarchy, for the definition of sin is breaking God’s law." 
1John3:4 Anyone who indulges in sin lives in moral anarchy, for the definition of sin is breaking God’s law." 
1John3:5 And you know without a doubt that Jesus was revealed to eradicate sins, and there is no sin in him. Anyone who continues to live in union with him will not sin." 
1John3:5 And you know without a doubt that Jesus was revealed to eradicate sins, and there is no sin in him. Anyone who continues to live in union with him will not sin." 
1John3:6 But the one who continues sinning hasn’t seen him with discernment or known him by intimate experience. 
1John3:6 But the one who continues sinning hasn’t seen him with discernment or known him by intimate experience. 
1John3:7 Delightfully loved children, don’t let anyone divert you from this truth. The person who keeps doing what is right proves that he is righteous before God, even as the Messiah is righteous." 
1John3:7 Delightfully loved children, don’t let anyone divert you from this truth. The person who keeps doing what is right proves that he is righteous before God, even as the Messiah is righteous." 
1John3:8 But the one who indulges in a sinful life is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God was revealed was to undo and destroy the works of the devil." 
1John3:8 But the one who indulges in a sinful life is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God was revealed was to undo and destroy the works of the devil." 
1John3:9 Everyone who is truly God’s child will refuse to keep sinning because God’s seed remains within him, and he is unable to continue sinning because he has been fathered by God himself." 
1John3:9 Everyone who is truly God’s child will refuse to keep sinning because God’s seed remains within him, and he is unable to continue sinning because he has been fathered by God himself." 
1John3:10 Here is how God’s children can be clearly distinguished from the children of the Evil One. Anyone who does not demonstrate righteousness and show love to fellow believers is not living with God as his source. 
1John3:10 Here is how God’s children can be clearly distinguished from the children of the Evil One. Anyone who does not demonstrate righteousness and show love to fellow believers is not living with God as his source. 
1John3:11 The beautiful message you’ve heard right from the start is that we should walk in self-sacrificing love toward one another. 
1John3:11 The beautiful message you’ve heard right from the start is that we should walk in self-sacrificing love toward one another. 
1John3:12 We should not be like Cain, who yielded to the Evil One and brutally murdered his own brother, Abel. And why did he murder him? Because his own actions were evil and his brother’s righteous." 
1John3:12 We should not be like Cain, who yielded to the Evil One and brutally murdered his own brother, Abel. And why did he murder him? Because his own actions were evil and his brother’s righteous." 
1John3:13 So don’t be shocked, beloved brothers and sisters, if you experience the world’s hatred." 
1John3:13 So don’t be shocked, beloved brothers and sisters, if you experience the world’s hatred." 
1John3:14 Yet we can be assured that we have been translated from spiritual death into spiritual life because we love the family of believers. A loveless life remains spiritually dead. 
1John3:14 Yet we can be assured that we have been translated from spiritual death into spiritual life because we love the family of believers. A loveless life remains spiritually dead. 
1John3:15 Everyone who keeps hating a fellow believer is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him." 
1John3:15 Everyone who keeps hating a fellow believer is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him." 
1John3:16 This is how we have discovered love’s reality: Jesus sacrificed his life for us. Because of this great love, we should be willing to lay down our lives for one another." 
1John3:16 This is how we have discovered love’s reality: Jesus sacrificed his life for us. Because of this great love, we should be willing to lay down our lives for one another." 
1John3:17 If anyone sees a fellow believer in need and has the means to help him, yet shows no pity and closes his heart against him, how is it even possible that God’s love lives in him?" 
1John3:17 If anyone sees a fellow believer in need and has the means to help him, yet shows no pity and closes his heart against him, how is it even possible that God’s love lives in him?" 
1John3:18 Beloved children, our love can’t be an abstract theory we only talk about, but a way of life demonstrated through our loving deeds." 
1John3:18 Beloved children, our love can’t be an abstract theory we only talk about, but a way of life demonstrated through our loving deeds." 
1John3:19 We know that the truth lives within us because we demonstrate love in action, which will reassure our hearts in his presence." 
1John3:19 We know that the truth lives within us because we demonstrate love in action, which will reassure our hearts in his presence." 
1John3:20 Whenever our hearts make us feel guilty and remind us of our failures, we know that God is much greater and more merciful than our conscience, and he knows everything there is to know about us." 
1John3:20 Whenever our hearts make us feel guilty and remind us of our failures, we know that God is much greater and more merciful than our conscience, and he knows everything there is to know about us." 
1John3:21 My delightfully loved friends, when our hearts don’t condemn us, we have a bold freedom to speak face-to-face with God." 
1John3:21 My delightfully loved friends, when our hearts don’t condemn us, we have a bold freedom to speak face-to-face with God." 
1John3:22 And whatever we ask of him we receive, because we keep his commands. And by our beautiful intentions we continue to do what brings pleasure to him." 
1John3:22 And whatever we ask of him we receive, because we keep his commands. And by our beautiful intentions we continue to do what brings pleasure to him." 
1John3:23 So these are his commands: that we continually place our trust in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and that we keep loving one another, just as he has commanded us." 
1John3:23 So these are his commands: that we continually place our trust in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and that we keep loving one another, just as he has commanded us." 
1John3:24 For all who obey his commands find their lives joined in union with him, and he lives and flourishes in them. We know and have proof that he constantly lives and flourishes in us, by the Spirit that he has given us." 
1John3:24 For all who obey his commands find their lives joined in union with him, and he lives and flourishes in them. We know and have proof that he constantly lives and flourishes in us, by the Spirit that he has given us." 
1John4:1 Delightfully loved friends, don’t trust every spirit, but carefully examine what they say to determine if they are of God, because many false prophets have mingled into the world." 
1John4:1 Delightfully loved friends, don’t trust every spirit, but carefully examine what they say to determine if they are of God, because many false prophets have mingled into the world." 
1John4:2 Here’s the test for those with the genuine Spirit of God: they will confess Jesus as the Christ who has come in the flesh. 
1John4:2 Here’s the test for those with the genuine Spirit of God: they will confess Jesus as the Christ who has come in the flesh. 
1John4:3 Everyone who does not acknowledge that Jesus is from God has the spirit of antichrist, which you heard was coming and is already active in the world." 
1John4:3 Everyone who does not acknowledge that Jesus is from God has the spirit of antichrist, which you heard was coming and is already active in the world." 
1John4:4 Little children, you can be certain that you belong to God and have conquered them, for the One who is living in you is far greater than the one who is in the world." 
1John4:4 Little children, you can be certain that you belong to God and have conquered them, for the One who is living in you is far greater than the one who is in the world." 
1John4:5 They belong to this world and they articulate the spirit of this world, and the world listens to them." 
1John4:5 They belong to this world and they articulate the spirit of this world, and the world listens to them." 
1John4:6 But we belong to God, and whoever truly knows God listens to us. Those who refuse to listen to us do not belong to God. That is how we can know the difference between the spirit of truth and the spirit of deceit." 
1John4:6 But we belong to God, and whoever truly knows God listens to us. Those who refuse to listen to us do not belong to God. That is how we can know the difference between the spirit of truth and the spirit of deceit." 
1John4:7 Those who are loved by God, let his love continually pour from you to one another, because God is love. Everyone who loves is fathered by God and experiences an intimate knowledge of him." 
1John4:7 Those who are loved by God, let his love continually pour from you to one another, because God is love. Everyone who loves is fathered by God and experiences an intimate knowledge of him." 
1John4:8 The one who doesn’t love has yet to know God, for God is love." 
1John4:8 The one who doesn’t love has yet to know God, for God is love." 
1John4:9 The light of God’s love shined within us when he sent his matchless Son into the world so that we might live through him. 
1John4:9 The light of God’s love shined within us when he sent his matchless Son into the world so that we might live through him. 
1John4:10 This is love: He loved us long before we loved him. It was his love, not ours. He proved it by sending his Son to be the pleasing sacrificial offering to take away our sins." 
1John4:10 This is love: He loved us long before we loved him. It was his love, not ours. He proved it by sending his Son to be the pleasing sacrificial offering to take away our sins." 
1John4:11 Delightfully loved ones, if he loved us with such tremendous love, then “loving one another” should be our way of life!" 
1John4:11 Delightfully loved ones, if he loved us with such tremendous love, then “loving one another” should be our way of life!" 
1John4:12 No one has ever gazed upon the fullness of God’s splendor. But if we love one another, God makes his permanent home in us, and we make our permanent home in him, and his love is brought to its full expression in us." 
1John4:12 No one has ever gazed upon the fullness of God’s splendor. But if we love one another, God makes his permanent home in us, and we make our permanent home in him, and his love is brought to its full expression in us." 
1John4:13 And he has given us his Spirit within us so that we can have the assurance that he lives in us and that we live in him. 
1John4:13 And he has given us his Spirit within us so that we can have the assurance that he lives in us and that we live in him. 
1John4:14 Moreover, we have seen with our own eyes and can testify to the truth that Father God has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world." 
1John4:14 Moreover, we have seen with our own eyes and can testify to the truth that Father God has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world." 
1John4:15 Those who give thanks that Jesus is the Son of God live in God, and God lives in them." 
1John4:15 Those who give thanks that Jesus is the Son of God live in God, and God lives in them." 
1John4:16 We have come into an intimate experience with God’s love, and we trust in the love he has for us. God is love! Those who are living in love are living in God, and God lives through them." 
1John4:16 We have come into an intimate experience with God’s love, and we trust in the love he has for us. God is love! Those who are living in love are living in God, and God lives through them." 
1John4:17 By living in God, love has been brought to its full expression in us so that we may fearlessly face the day of judgment, because all that Jesus now is, so are we in this world." 
1John4:17 By living in God, love has been brought to its full expression in us so that we may fearlessly face the day of judgment, because all that Jesus now is, so are we in this world." 
1John4:18 Love never brings fear, for fear is always related to punishment. But love’s perfection drives the fear of punishment far from our hearts. Whoever walks constantly afraid of punishment has not reached love’s perfection." 
1John4:18 Love never brings fear, for fear is always related to punishment. But love’s perfection drives the fear of punishment far from our hearts. Whoever walks constantly afraid of punishment has not reached love’s perfection." 
1John4:19 Our love for others is our grateful response to the love God first demonstrated to us. 
1John4:19 Our love for others is our grateful response to the love God first demonstrated to us. 
1John4:20 Anyone can say, “I love God,” yet have hatred toward another believer. This makes him a phony, because if you don’t love a brother or sister, whom you can see, how can you truly love God, whom you can’t see?" 
1John4:20 Anyone can say, “I love God,” yet have hatred toward another believer. This makes him a phony, because if you don’t love a brother or sister, whom you can see, how can you truly love God, whom you can’t see?" 
1John4:21 For he has given us this command: whoever loves God must also demonstrate love to others. 
1John4:21 For he has given us this command: whoever loves God must also demonstrate love to others. 
1John5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Messiah is God’s spiritual child and has been fathered by God himself. And everyone who loves Father God loves his children as well. 
1John5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Messiah is God’s spiritual child and has been fathered by God himself. And everyone who loves Father God loves his children as well. 
1John5:2 This is how we can be sure that we love the children of God: by having a passionate love for God and by obedience to his commands. 
1John5:2 This is how we can be sure that we love the children of God: by having a passionate love for God and by obedience to his commands. 
1John5:3 True love for God means obeying his commands, and his commands don’t weigh us down as heavy burdens." 
1John5:3 True love for God means obeying his commands, and his commands don’t weigh us down as heavy burdens." 
1John5:4 You see, every child of God overcomes the world, for our faith is the victorious power that triumphs over the world." 
1John5:4 You see, every child of God overcomes the world, for our faith is the victorious power that triumphs over the world." 
1John5:5 So who are the world conquerors, defeating its power? Those who believe that Jesus is the Son of God." 
1John5:5 So who are the world conquerors, defeating its power? Those who believe that Jesus is the Son of God." 
1John5:6 Jesus Christ is the One who was revealed as God’s Son by his water baptism and by the blood of his cross —not by water only, but by water and blood. And the Spirit, who is truth, confirms this with his testimony." 
1John5:6 Jesus Christ is the One who was revealed as God’s Son by his water baptism and by the blood of his cross —not by water only, but by water and blood. And the Spirit, who is truth, confirms this with his testimony." 
1John5:7 So we have these three constant witnesses giving their evidence: 
1John5:7 So we have these three constant witnesses giving their evidence: 
1John5:8 the Spirit, the water, and the blood. And these three are in agreement." 
1John5:8 the Spirit, the water, and the blood. And these three are in agreement." 
1John5:9 If we accept the testimony of men, how much more should we accept the more authoritative testimony of God that he has testified concerning his Son?" 
1John5:9 If we accept the testimony of men, how much more should we accept the more authoritative testimony of God that he has testified concerning his Son?" 
1John5:10 Those who believe in the Son of God have the living testimony in their hearts. Those who don’t believe have made God out to be a liar by not believing the testimony God has confirmed about his Son. 
1John5:10 Those who believe in the Son of God have the living testimony in their hearts. Those who don’t believe have made God out to be a liar by not believing the testimony God has confirmed about his Son. 
1John5:11 This is the true testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life has its source in his Son." 
1John5:11 This is the true testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life has its source in his Son." 
1John5:12 Whoever has the Son has eternal life; whoever does not have the Son does not possess eternal life. 
1John5:12 Whoever has the Son has eternal life; whoever does not have the Son does not possess eternal life. 
1John5:13 I’ve written this letter to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you will be assured and know without a doubt that you have eternal life. 
1John5:13 I’ve written this letter to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you will be assured and know without a doubt that you have eternal life. 
1John5:14 Since we have this confidence, we can also have great boldness before him, for if we ask anything agreeable to his will, he will hear us." 
1John5:14 Since we have this confidence, we can also have great boldness before him, for if we ask anything agreeable to his will, he will hear us." 
1John5:15 And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we also know that we have obtained the requests we ask of him." 
1John5:15 And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we also know that we have obtained the requests we ask of him." 
1John5:16 If anyone observes a fellow believer habitually sinning in a way that doesn’t lead to death, you should keep interceding in prayer that God will give that person life. Now, there is a sin that leads to death, and I’m not encouraging you to pray for those who commit it." 
1John5:16 If anyone observes a fellow believer habitually sinning in a way that doesn’t lead to death, you should keep interceding in prayer that God will give that person life. Now, there is a sin that leads to death, and I’m not encouraging you to pray for those who commit it." 
1John5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, but there is sin that does not result in death." 
1John5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, but there is sin that does not result in death." 
1John5:18 We are convinced that everyone fathered by God does not make sinning a way of life, because the Son of God protects the child of God, and the Evil One cannot touch him." 
1John5:18 We are convinced that everyone fathered by God does not make sinning a way of life, because the Son of God protects the child of God, and the Evil One cannot touch him." 
1John5:19 We know that we are God’s children and that the whole world lies under the misery and influence of the Evil One. 
1John5:19 We know that we are God’s children and that the whole world lies under the misery and influence of the Evil One. 
1John5:20 And we know that the Son of God has made our understanding come alive so that we can know by experience the One who is true. And we are in him who is true, God’s Son, Jesus Christ—the true God and eternal life!" 
1John5:20 And we know that the Son of God has made our understanding come alive so that we can know by experience the One who is true. And we are in him who is true, God’s Son, Jesus Christ—the true God and eternal life!" 
1John5:21 So, little children, guard yourselves from worshiping anything but him." 
1John5:21 So, little children, guard yourselves from worshiping anything but him." 
2John1:1 From the elder to God’s chosen woman and her children: I love you all as those who are in the truth. And I’m not the only one, for all who come to know the truth share my love for you" 
2John1:1 From the elder to God’s chosen woman and her children: I love you all as those who are in the truth. And I’m not the only one, for all who come to know the truth share my love for you" 
2John1:2 because of the living truth that has a permanent home in us and will be with us forever. 
2John1:2 because of the living truth that has a permanent home in us and will be with us forever. 
2John1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace belong to us, flowing from the presence of God the Father and from Jesus Christ, Son of the Father and from the realm of true love." 
2John1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace belong to us, flowing from the presence of God the Father and from Jesus Christ, Son of the Father and from the realm of true love." 
2John1:4 I was delighted and filled with joy when I learned that your children are consistently living in the truth, just as we have received the command from the Father." 
2John1:4 I was delighted and filled with joy when I learned that your children are consistently living in the truth, just as we have received the command from the Father." 
2John1:5 Dearest woman, I have a request to make of you. It is not a new commandment but a repetition of the one we have had from the beginning: that we constantly love one another." 
2John1:5 Dearest woman, I have a request to make of you. It is not a new commandment but a repetition of the one we have had from the beginning: that we constantly love one another." 
2John1:6 This love means living in obedience to whatever God commands us. For to walk in love toward one another is the unifying commandment we’ve heard from the beginning. 
2John1:6 This love means living in obedience to whatever God commands us. For to walk in love toward one another is the unifying commandment we’ve heard from the beginning. 
2John1:7 Numerous deceivers have surfaced from among us and gone out into the world, people who will not acknowledge Jesus Christ coming as a man. These deceivers are antichrists!" 
2John1:7 Numerous deceivers have surfaced from among us and gone out into the world, people who will not acknowledge Jesus Christ coming as a man. These deceivers are antichrists!" 
2John1:8 Be on your guard so that you do not lose all that we have diligently worked for but receive a full reward. 
2John1:8 Be on your guard so that you do not lose all that we have diligently worked for but receive a full reward. 
2John1:9 Anyone who wanders away and does not remain faithful to the teaching of Christ has no relationship with God. But those who remain in the teaching of Christ have a wonderful relationship with both the Father and the Son. 
2John1:9 Anyone who wanders away and does not remain faithful to the teaching of Christ has no relationship with God. But those who remain in the teaching of Christ have a wonderful relationship with both the Father and the Son. 
2John1:10 So if anyone comes into your fellowship claiming to be a true believer yet doesn’t bring this teaching, you are not to consider him as a fellow believer, nor should you welcome him into your homes." 
2John1:10 So if anyone comes into your fellowship claiming to be a true believer yet doesn’t bring this teaching, you are not to consider him as a fellow believer, nor should you welcome him into your homes." 
2John1:11 For if you welcome him as a believer, you will be partnering with him in his evil agenda." 
2John1:11 For if you welcome him as a believer, you will be partnering with him in his evil agenda." 
2John1:12 Although I have many more subjects I’d like to discuss with you, I’d rather not include them in this letter. But I look forward to coming to visit and speaking with you face-to-face —for being together will complete our joy!" 
2John1:12 Although I have many more subjects I’d like to discuss with you, I’d rather not include them in this letter. But I look forward to coming to visit and speaking with you face-to-face —for being together will complete our joy!" 
2John1:13 The children of your sister, whom God has chosen, send you their loving greetings. Amen." 
2John1:13 The children of your sister, whom God has chosen, send you their loving greetings. Amen." 
3John1:1 From the elder to my dearly loved brother Gaius, whom I truly love:" 
3John1:1 From the elder to my dearly loved brother Gaius, whom I truly love:" 
3John1:2 Beloved friend, I pray that you are prospering in every way and that you continually enjoy good health, just as your soul is prospering." 
3John1:2 Beloved friend, I pray that you are prospering in every way and that you continually enjoy good health, just as your soul is prospering." 
3John1:3 I was filled with joy and delight when the brothers arrived and informed me of your faithfulness to the truth. They told me how you live continually in the truth of Christ. 
3John1:3 I was filled with joy and delight when the brothers arrived and informed me of your faithfulness to the truth. They told me how you live continually in the truth of Christ. 
3John1:4 It is the greatest joy of my life to hear that my children are consistently living their lives in the ways of truth! 
3John1:4 It is the greatest joy of my life to hear that my children are consistently living their lives in the ways of truth! 
3John1:5 My beloved friend, I commend you for your demonstration of faithful love by all that you have done for the brothers on their journey, even though they were strangers at the time." 
3John1:5 My beloved friend, I commend you for your demonstration of faithful love by all that you have done for the brothers on their journey, even though they were strangers at the time." 
3John1:6 They have shared publicly with the congregation about the beautiful acts of love you have shown them. Now, if you would be so kind, send them on their way with a generous gift, in a manner that would honor God." 
3John1:6 They have shared publicly with the congregation about the beautiful acts of love you have shown them. Now, if you would be so kind, send them on their way with a generous gift, in a manner that would honor God." 
3John1:7 You see, it was their passion for the glory of the name of Christ that launched them out, and they’ve not accepted financial support from unbelievers." 
3John1:7 You see, it was their passion for the glory of the name of Christ that launched them out, and they’ve not accepted financial support from unbelievers." 
3John1:8 They are deserving of all the support we can give them, because through our giving we can partner with them for the truth." 
3John1:8 They are deserving of all the support we can give them, because through our giving we can partner with them for the truth." 
3John1:9 I have already written you once about this, but Diotrephes, who loves to be in charge and recognized as first among you, does not acknowledge our authority." 
3John1:9 I have already written you once about this, but Diotrephes, who loves to be in charge and recognized as first among you, does not acknowledge our authority." 
3John1:10 So if I come, I will address what he’s doing—spreading his malicious slander against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome our brothers, and he stands in the way of those who want to receive them and show them hospitality by throwing them out of the church!" 
3John1:10 So if I come, I will address what he’s doing—spreading his malicious slander against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome our brothers, and he stands in the way of those who want to receive them and show them hospitality by throwing them out of the church!" 
3John1:11 Delightfully loved ones, don’t imitate what is evil, but imitate that which is good. Whoever does good is of God; whoever does evil has not seen God." 
3John1:11 Delightfully loved ones, don’t imitate what is evil, but imitate that which is good. Whoever does good is of God; whoever does evil has not seen God." 
3John1:12 As for Demetrius, everyone speaks very highly of him, and even the truth itself stands by his side. We too wholeheartedly endorse him, and you know that our recommendation is reliable." 
3John1:12 As for Demetrius, everyone speaks very highly of him, and even the truth itself stands by his side. We too wholeheartedly endorse him, and you know that our recommendation is reliable." 
3John1:13 Although I have many more subjects I’d like to discuss with you, I’d rather not include them in this letter." 
3John1:13 Although I have many more subjects I’d like to discuss with you, I’d rather not include them in this letter." 
3John1:14 Instead, I hope to visit you and speak with you face-to-face." 
3John1:14 Instead, I hope to visit you and speak with you face-to-face." 
3John1:15 Peace to you, my friend. Your friends here send their loving greetings to you. Please greet each one of our friends there by name." 
3John1:15 Peace to you, my friend. Your friends here send their loving greetings to you. Please greet each one of our friends there by name." 
Jude1:1 From Judah, a loving servant of Jesus, the Anointed One, and brother of Jacob. I’m writing to the chosen ones who are wrapped in the love of Father God—kept and guarded for Jesus, the Messiah." 
Jude1:2 May God’s mercy, peace, and love cascade over you!" 
Jude1:3 Dearly loved friend, I was fully intending to write to you about our amazing salvation we all participate in, but felt the need instead to challenge you to vigorously defend and contend for the beliefs that we cherish. For God, through the apostles, has once for all entrusted these truths to his holy believers." 
Jude1:4 There have been some who have sneaked in among you unnoticed. They are depraved people whose judgment was prophesied in Scripture a long time ago. They have perverted the message of God’s grace into a license to commit immorality and turn against our only absolute Master, our Lord Jesus Christ." 
Jude1:5 I need to remind you, even though you are familiar with it all, that the Lord Jesus saved his people out of Egypt but subsequently destroyed those who were guilty of unbelief." 
Jude1:6 In the same way, there were heavenly messengers in rebellion who went outside their rightful domain of authority and abandoned their appointed realms. God bound them in everlasting chains and is keeping them in the dark abyss of the netherworld until the judgment of the great day." 
Jude1:7 In a similar way, the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah and nearby towns gave themselves to sexual immorality and the unnatural desire of different flesh. Now they all serve as examples of those who experience the punishment of eternal fire." 
Jude1:8 In the same way, these sensual “dreamers” corrupt and pollute the natural realm, while on the other hand they reject the spiritual realms of governmental power and repeatedly scoff at heavenly glories." 
Jude1:9 Even the archangel Michael, when he was disputing with the devil over the body of Moses, dared not insult or slander him, but simply said, “The Lord Yahweh rebuke you!”" 
Jude1:10 These people insult anything they don’t understand. They behave like irrational beasts by doing whatever they feel like doing. Because they live by their animal instincts, they corrupt themselves and bring about their own destruction." 
Jude1:11 How terrible it is for them! For they have followed in the steps of Cain. They have abandoned themselves to Balaam’s error because of their greedy pursuit of financial gain. And since they have rebelled like Korah rebelled, they will experience the same fate of Korah and likewise perish." 
Jude1:12 These false teachers are like dangerous hidden reefs at your love feasts, lying in wait to shipwreck the immature. They feast among you without reverence, having no shepherd but themselves. They are clouds with no rain, swept along by the winds. Like fruitless late-autumn trees —twice dead, barren, and plucked up by the roots!" 
Jude1:13 They are wild waves of the sea, flinging out the foam of their shame and disgrace. They are misleading like wandering stars, for whom the complete darkness of eternal gloom has been reserved." 
Jude1:14 Enoch, the seventh direct descendant from Adam, prophesied of their doom when he said, “Look! Here comes the Lord Yahweh in his myriads of holy ones." 
Jude1:15 He comes to execute judgment against them all and to convict each one of them for their ungodly deeds and for all the terrible words that ungodly sinners have spoken against him.” 
Jude1:16 These people are always complaining and never satisfied—finding fault with everyone. They follow their own evil desires and their mouths speak scandalous things. They enjoy using seductive flattery to manipulate others. 
Jude1:17 But you, my delightfully loved friends, remember the prophecies of the apostles of our Lord Jesus, the Anointed One." 
Jude1:18 They taught you, “In the last days there will always be mockers, motivated by their own ungodly desires.”" 
Jude1:19 These people cause divisions and are followers of their own natural instincts, devoid of the life of the Spirit." 
Jude1:20 But you, my delightfully loved friends, constantly and progressively build yourselves up on the foundation of your most holy faith by praying every moment in the Spirit." 
Jude1:21 Fasten your hearts to the love of God and receive the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, who gives us eternal life." 
Jude1:22 Keep being compassionate to those who still have doubts," 
Jude1:23 and snatch others out of the fire to save them. Be merciful over and over to them, but always couple your mercy with the fear of God. Be extremely careful to keep yourselves free from the pollutions of the flesh." 
Jude1:24 Now, to the one with enough power to prevent you from stumbling into sin and bring you faultless before his glorious presence to stand before him with ecstatic delight," 
Jude1:25 to the only God our Savior, through our Lord Jesus Christ, be endless glory and majesty, great power and authority—from before he created time, now, and throughout all the ages of eternity. Amen!" 
Revelation1:1 This is the unveiling of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to share with his loving servants what must occur swiftly. He signified it by sending his angel to his loving servant John." 
Revelation1:1 This is the unveiling of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to share with his loving servants what must occur swiftly. He signified it by sending his angel to his loving servant John." 
Revelation1:2 I, John, bore witness to the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ." 
Revelation1:2 I, John, bore witness to the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ." 
Revelation1:3 A joyous blessing rests upon the one who reads this message and upon those who hear and embrace the words of this prophecy, for the appointed time is in your hands." 
Revelation1:4 From John to the seven churches in western Turkey: May the kindness of God’s grace and peace overflow to you from him who is, and who was, and who is coming, and from the seven spirits who are in front of his throne," 
Revelation1:4 From John to the seven churches in western Turkey: May the kindness of God’s grace and peace overflow to you from him who is, and who was, and who is coming, and from the seven spirits who are in front of his throne," 
Revelation1:5 and from Jesus Christ the Faithful Witness, the Firstborn from among the dead and the ruling King, who rules over the kings of the earth! Now to the one who constantly loves us and has loosed us from our sins by his own blood," 
Revelation1:6 and to the one who has appointed us as a kingdom of priests to serve his God and Father—to him be glory and dominion throughout the eternity of eternities! Amen! 
Revelation1:7 Behold! He appears within the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him. And all the people of the earth will weep with sorrow because of him. And so it is to be! Amen." 
Revelation1:8 “I am the Aleph and the Tav, the beginning and the ending,” says the Lord God, “who is, who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.”" 
Revelation1:9 I, John, am your brother and companion in tribulation, the kingdom, and the patience that are found in Jesus. I was exiled on the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus." 
Revelation1:9 I, John, am your brother and companion in tribulation, the kingdom, and the patience that are found in Jesus. I was exiled on the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus." 
Revelation1:10 I was in the spirit realm on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a loud voice sounding like a trumpet," 
Revelation1:11 saying to me: Write in a book what you see and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, to Smyrna, to Pergamum, to Thyatira, to Sardis, to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea." 
Revelation1:12 When I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, I saw seven golden lampstands." 
Revelation1:13 And walking among the lampstands, I saw someone like a son of man, wearing a full-length robe with a golden sash over his chest." 
Revelation1:14 His head and his hair were white like wool—white as glistening snow. And his eyes were like flames of fire! 
Revelation1:15 His feet were gleaming like bright metal, as though they were glowing in a fire, and his voice was like the roar of many rushing waters." 
Revelation1:16 In his right hand he held seven stars, and out of his mouth was a sharp, double-edged sword. And his face was shining like the brightness of the blinding sun!" 
Revelation1:17 When I saw him, I fell down at his feet as good as dead, but he laid his right hand on me and I heard his reassuring voice saying: Don’t yield to fear. I am the Beginning and I am the End," 
Revelation1:18 the Living One! I was dead, but now look—I am alive forever and ever. And I hold the keys that unlock death and the unseen world." 
Revelation1:19 Now I want you to write what you have seen, what is, and what comes after the things that I reveal to you." 
Revelation1:20 The mystery of the lampstands and the seven stars is this: the seven lampstands are the seven churches, and the seven stars in my right hand are the seven messengers of the seven churches." 
Revelation2:1 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Ephesus. For these are the words of the one who holds the seven stars firmly in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands:" 
Revelation2:2 I know all that you’ve done for me—you have worked hard and persevered. I know that you don’t tolerate evil. You have tested those who claimed to be apostles and proved they are not, for they were imposters." 
Revelation2:3 I also know how you have bravely endured trials and persecutions because of my name, yet you have not become discouraged." 
Revelation2:4 But I have this against you: you have abandoned the passionate love you had for me at the beginning. 
Revelation2:5 Think about how far you have fallen! Repent and do the works of love you did at first. I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place of influence if you do not repent. 
Revelation2:6 Although, to your credit, you despise the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also despise." 
Revelation2:7 The one whose heart is open let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is saying now to all the churches. To the one who overcomes I will give access to feast on the fruit of the Tree of Life that is found in the paradise of God. 
Revelation2:8 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Smyrna. For these are the words of the one who is the Beginning and the End, the one who became a corpse, but came back to life:" 
Revelation2:9 I am aware of all the painful difficulties you have passed through and your financial hardships, even though, in fact, you possess rich treasure. And I am fully aware of the slander that has come against you from those who claim to be Jews but are not, for they are a satanic congregation." 
Revelation2:10 Do not yield to fear in the face of the suffering to come but be aware of this: the devil is about to have some of you thrown into prison to test your faith. For ten days you will have distress but remain faithful to the day you die, and I will give you the victor’s crown of life." 
Revelation2:11 The one whose heart is open let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is presently saying to all the churches. The one who conquers will not be harmed by the second death. 
Revelation2:12 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Pergamum. For these are the words of the one whose words pierce the hearts of men: 
Revelation2:13 I know where you live—where Satan sits enthroned, yet you still cling faithfully to the power of my name. You did not deny your faith in me even in the days of my faithful martyr Antipas, who was executed in your city, where Satan lives." 
Revelation2:14 Nevertheless, I have a few things against you. There are some among you who hold to the teachings of Balaam, who taught Balak to entice the Israelites to eat things that were sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality." 
Revelation2:15 Furthermore, you have some who hold to the doctrines of the Nicolaitans." 
Revelation2:16 So repent, then, or I will come quickly to war against them with the sword of my mouth." 
Revelation2:17 But the one whose heart is open, let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is presently saying to all the churches. To everyone who is victorious I will let him feast on the hidden manna and give him a shining white stone. And written upon the white stone is inscribed his new name, known only to the one who receives it." 
Revelation2:18 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Thyatira. For these are the words of the Son of God, whose eyes are blazing fire and whose feet are like burnished brass:" 
Revelation2:19 I know all that you’ve done for me—your love and faith, your ministry and steadfast perseverance. In fact, you now excel in these virtues even more than at the first." 
Revelation2:20 But I have this against you: you are forgiving that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is seducing my loving servants. She is teaching that it is permissible to indulge in sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols." 
Revelation2:21 I have waited for her to repent from her vile immorality, but she willingly refuses to do so." 
Revelation2:22 Now I will lay her low with terrible distress along with all her adulterous partners if they do not repent. 
Revelation2:23 And I will strike down her followers with a deadly plague. Then all the congregations will realize that I am the one who thoroughly searches the most secret thought and the innermost being. I will give to each one what their works deserve. 
Revelation2:24 But to the rest of you in Thyatira who don’t adhere to the teachings of Jezebel and have not been initiated into deep satanic secrets, I say to you (without laying upon you any other burden):" 
Revelation2:25 Cling tightly to all that you have until I appear. 
Revelation2:26 To everyone who is victorious and continues to do my works to the very end I will give you authority over the nations 
Revelation2:27 to shepherd them with a royal scepter. And the rebellious will be shattered as clay pots— 
Revelation2:28 even as I also received authority from the presence of my Father. I will give the morning star to the one who experiences victory. 
Revelation2:29 So the one whose heart is open let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is presently saying to all the churches. 
Revelation3:1 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Sardis, for these are the words of the one who holds the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars: I know all that you do and I know that you have a reputation for being really “alive,” but you’re actually dead!" 
Revelation3:2 Wake up and strengthen all that remains before it dies, for I haven’t found your works to be perfect in the sight of my God." 
Revelation3:3 So remember all the things you’ve received and heard, then turn back to God and obey them. For if you continue to slumber, I will come to you like a thief, and you’ll have no idea at what hour I will come." 
Revelation3:4 Yet there are still a few in Sardis who have remained pure, and they will walk in fellowship with me in brilliant light, for they are worthy." 
Revelation3:5 And the one who experiences victory will be dressed in white robes and I will never, no never erase your name from the Book of Life. I will acknowledge your name before my Father and his angels." 
Revelation3:6 So the one whose heart is open let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is now saying to all the churches. 
Revelation3:7 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Philadelphia, for these are the solemn words of the Holy One, the true one, who has David’s key, who opens doors that none can shut and who closes doors that none can open:" 
Revelation3:8 I know all that you’ve done. Now I have set before you a wide-open door that none can shut. For I know that you possess only a little power, yet you’ve kept my word and haven’t denied my name." 
Revelation3:9 Watch how I deal with those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews but are not, for they’re lying. I will make them come and bow down at your feet and acknowledge how much I’ve loved you." 
Revelation3:10 Because you’ve passionately kept my message of perseverance, I will also keep you from the hour of proving that is coming to test every person on earth." 
Revelation3:11 But I come swiftly, so cling tightly to what you have, so that no one may seize your crown of victory." 
Revelation3:12 For the one who is victorious, I will make you to be a pillar in the sanctuary of my God, permanently secure. I will write on you the name of my God and the name of the city of my God—the New Jerusalem, descending from my God out of heaven. And I’ll write my own name on you." 
Revelation3:13 So the one whose heart is open let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is now saying to all the churches. 
Revelation3:14 Write the following to the messenger of the congregation in Laodicea, for these are the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ruler of God’s creation:" 
Revelation3:15 I know all that you do, and I know that you are neither frozen in apathy nor fervent with passion. How I wish you were either one or the other!" 
Revelation3:16 But because you are neither cold nor hot, but lukewarm, I am about to spit you from my mouth." 
Revelation3:17 For you claim, “I’m rich and getting richer—I don’t need a thing.” Yet you are clueless that you’re miserable, poor, blind, barren, and naked!" 
Revelation3:18 So I counsel you to purchase gold perfected by fire, so that you can be truly rich. Purchase a white garment to cover and clothe your shameful Adam-nakedness. Purchase eye salve to be placed over your eyes so that you can truly see." 
Revelation3:19 All those I dearly love I unmask and train. So repent and be eager to pursue what is right. 
Revelation3:20 Behold, I’m standing at the door, knocking. If your heart is open to hear my voice and you open the door within, I will come in to you and feast with you, and you will feast with me." 
Revelation3:21 And to the one who conquers I will give the privilege of sitting with me on my throne, just as I conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne." 
Revelation3:22 The one whose heart is open let him listen carefully to what the Spirit is saying now to the churches. 
Revelation4:1 Then suddenly, after I wrote down these messages, I saw a portal open into the heavenly realm, and the same trumpet-voice I heard speaking with me at the beginning said, “Ascend into this realm! I want to reveal to you what must happen after this.”" 
Revelation4:2 Instantly I was taken into the spirit realm, and behold—I saw a heavenly throne being set in place and someone seated upon it." 
Revelation4:3 His appearance was sparkling like crystal and glowing like a carnelian gemstone. Surrounding the throne was a circle of green light, like an emerald rainbow." 
Revelation4:4 Encircling the great throne were twenty-four thrones with elders in glistening white garments seated upon them, each wearing a golden crown of victory." 
Revelation4:5 And pulsing from the throne were blinding flashes of lightning, crashes of thunder, and voices. And burning before the throne were seven blazing torches, which represent the seven Spirits of God." 
Revelation4:6 And in front of the throne there was pavement like a crystal sea of glass. Around the throne and on each side stood four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind." 
Revelation4:7 The first living creature resembled a lion, the second an ox, the third had a human face, and the fourth was like an eagle in flight." 
Revelation4:8 Each of the four living creatures had six wings, full of eyes all around and under their wings. They worshiped without ceasing, day and night, singing, “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty! The Was, the Is, and the Coming!”" 
Revelation4:9 And whenever the living creatures gave glory, honor, and thanks to the One who is enthroned and who lives forever and ever," 
Revelation4:10 the twenty-four elders fell facedown before the one seated on the throne and they worshiped the one who lives forever and ever. And they surrendered their crowns before the throne, singing:" 
Revelation4:11 “You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory, honor, and power, for you created all things, and for your pleasure they were created and exist.”" 
Revelation5:1 And I saw that the one seated on the throne was holding in his right hand an unopened scroll with writing on the inside and on the outside, and it was sealed with seven seals." 
Revelation5:2 Then I saw an incredibly powerful angel proclaiming with a great, loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and able to break its seven seals?”" 
Revelation5:3 But no person could be found, living or dead, in all of creation —no one was worthy to open the scroll and read its contents." 
Revelation5:4 So I broke down weeping with intense sorrow, because there was found no one worthy to break open the scroll and read its contents." 
Revelation5:5 Then one of the elders said to me, “Stop weeping. Look! The mighty Lion of Judah’s tribe, the root of David—he has conquered! He is the worthy one who can open the scroll and its seven seals.”" 
Revelation5:6 Then I saw a young Lamb standing before the throne, encircled by the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders. He appeared to have been slaughtered but was now alive! He had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent out to the ends of the earth." 
Revelation5:7 I saw the young Lamb approach the throne and take the scroll from the right hand of the one who sat there. 
Revelation5:8 And when the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures saw the Lamb had taken the scroll, they fell facedown at the feet of the Lamb and worshiped him. Each of them had a harp and golden bowls brimming full of sweet fragrant incense—which are the prayers of God’s holy lovers." 
Revelation5:9 And they were all singing this new song of praise to the Lamb: “Because you were slaughtered for us, you are worthy to take the scroll and open its seals. Your blood was the price paid to redeem us. You purchased us to bring us to God out of every tribe, language, people group, and nation." 
Revelation5:10 You have chosen us to serve our God and formed us into a kingdom of priests who reign on the earth.” 
Revelation5:11 Then I looked, and I heard the voices of myriads of angels in circles around the throne, as well as the voices of the living creatures and the elders—myriads and myriads!" 
Revelation5:12 And as I watched, all of them were singing with thunderous voices: “Worthy is Christ the Lamb who was slaughtered to receive great power and might, wealth and wisdom, and honor, glory, and praise!”" 
Revelation5:13 Then every living being joined the angelic choir. Every creature in heaven and on earth, under the earth, in the sea, and everything in them, were worshiping with one voice, saying: “Praise, honor, glory, and dominion be to God-Enthroned and to Christ the Lamb forever and ever!”" 
Revelation5:14 Then the four living creatures responded: “Amen!” And the twenty-four elders threw themselves facedown to the ground and worshiped. 
Revelation6:1 Then I watched as the Lamb broke open the first of the seven seals. Immediately I heard one of the four living creatures call out with a powerful voice of revelation sounding like thunder, saying, “Come forth!”" 
Revelation6:2 So I looked, and behold, there was a bright white horse. Its rider had a bow and was given a crown of victory. He rode out as a conqueror ready to conquer." 
Revelation6:3 When he broke open the second seal, I heard the second living creature call out: “Come forth!”" 
Revelation6:4 And there appeared another horse, red like fiery flames, and its rider was given a great sword and the power to take peace from the earth, causing one to put to death another." 
Revelation6:5 Then he broke open the third seal, and I heard the third living creature call out, “Come forth!” And behold, I saw a black horse right in front of me, and its rider was holding measuring scales." 
Revelation6:6 And I heard what seemed to be a voice from among the living creatures saying, “A small measure of wheat for a day’s pay, and three measures of barley for a day’s pay, but don’t harm the olive trees producing oil and the vines producing wine.”" 
Revelation6:7 When he broke open the fourth seal, I heard the fourth living creature call out, “Come forth!”" 
Revelation6:8 And behold, I saw a green horse, and its rider’s name was Death, and Death’s Domain followed him. They were given authority over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword, famine, death, and by the wild beasts." 
Revelation6:9 When the Lamb broke open the fifth seal, I saw gathered under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the Word of God and because they had the testimony of the Lamb." 
Revelation6:10 They cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Sovereign Lord, holy and dependable, how long before you judge those who live on the earth and vindicate our blood on them?”" 
Revelation6:11 Each one was given a glistening white robe. And they were told to rest a little longer, until the full number was fulfilled of both their fellow servants and brothers and sisters who were going to be killed just as they had been." 
Revelation6:12 And behold! I saw the Lamb break open the sixth seal, which released a powerful earthquake. I saw the sun become pitch black and the full moon become bloodred." 
Revelation6:13 The stars fell from heaven to the earth, as a fig tree shaken by a stormy wind sheds its unripe figs." 
Revelation6:14 The sky receded with a snap—as a scroll rolls itself up. And every mountain and island was moved from its place. 
Revelation6:15 Then the kings of the earth and its great princes and generals, the rich and powerful, and everyone, whether they were slave or free, ran for cover and hid in the caves and among the mountain boulders." 
Revelation6:16 They called out to the mountains and the boulders, saying, “Fall on us at once! Hide us quickly from the glorious face of the one seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb," 
Revelation6:17 for the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?”" 
Revelation7:1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, and they were restraining the four winds so that no wind would blow on the land, on the sea, or on any tree." 
Revelation7:2 Then I saw another angel ascending from the east, who had the seal of the living God. He shouted out with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to damage earth and sea," 
Revelation7:3 saying, “Do not damage the earth, the sea, or the trees until we have marked the loving servants of our God with a seal on their foreheads.”" 
Revelation7:4 And I discovered the number of those who were sealed. It was one hundred and forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of Israel’s people." 
Revelation7:5 Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Judah. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Reuben. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Gad. 
Revelation7:6 Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Asher. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Naphtali. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Manasseh. 
Revelation7:7 Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Simeon. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Levi. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Issachar. 
Revelation7:8 Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Zebulun. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Joseph. Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Benjamin. 
Revelation7:9 After this I looked, and behold, right in front of me I saw a vast multitude of people—an enormous multitude so huge that no one could count—made up of victorious ones from every nation, tribe, people group, and language. They were all in glistening white robes, standing before the throne and before the Lamb with palm branches in their hands." 
Revelation7:10 And they shouted out with a passionate voice: “Salvation belongs to our God seated on the throne and to the Lamb!” 
Revelation7:11 All the angels were standing in a circle around the throne with the elders and the four living creatures, and they all fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God," 
Revelation7:12 singing: “Amen! Praise and glory, wisdom and thanksgiving, honor, power, and might belong to our God forever and ever! Amen!”" 
Revelation7:13 Then one of the elders asked me, “Who are these in glistening white robes, and where have they come from?”" 
Revelation7:14 I answered, “My lord—you must know.” Then he said to me, “They are ones who have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb and have emerged from the midst of great pressure and ordeal." 
Revelation7:15 For this reason they are before the throne of God, ministering to him as priests day and night, within his cloud-filled sanctuary. And the enthroned One spreads over them his tabernacle-shelter." 
Revelation7:16 Their souls will be completely satisfied. And neither the sun nor any scorching heat will affect them. 
Revelation7:17 For the Lamb at the center of the throne continuously shepherds them unto life —guiding them to the everlasting fountains of the water of life. And God will wipe from their eyes every last tear!” 
Revelation8:1 When the Lamb broke open the seventh seal, heaven fell silent for about half an hour." 
Revelation8:2 And then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and each was given a trumpet." 
Revelation8:3 Then the eighth angel with a golden incense burner came and took his place at the incense altar. He was given a great quantity of incense to offer up, consisting of the prayers of God’s holy people, upon the golden altar that is before the throne." 
Revelation8:4 And the smoke of the incense with the prayers of the holy ones billowed up before God from the hand of the angel. 
Revelation8:5 Then the angel filled the golden incense burner with coals of fire from the altar and hurled it onto the earth, releasing great peals of thunder, voices, lightning flashes, and an earthquake." 
Revelation8:6 Then the seven angels prepared to sound their trumpets. 
Revelation8:7 When the first angel sounded his trumpet, there came forth hail and fire mixed with blood, and it was hurled to the earth. A third of the earth was burned up, destroying a third of the trees and all green grass." 
Revelation8:8 When the second angel sounded his trumpet, something like a huge mountain burning with flames of fire was thrown into the sea, destroying a third of the ships." 
Revelation8:9 A third of the sea turned into blood, destroying a third of all sea creatures." 
Revelation8:10 The third angel sounded his trumpet, and a megastar, blazing like a torch, descended from heaven upon a third of the rivers and fountains." 
Revelation8:11 The name of the star is Bitterness. A third of the waters became so bitter that many people died. 
Revelation8:12 The fourth angel sounded his trumpet and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of their light was darkened, and there was no light for a third of the day and likewise the night." 
Revelation8:13 Then I saw and heard an eagle flying overhead, crying out with a loud voice, “Woe, woe, woe, to the people of the earth, because of the next three trumpets about to be sounded by the other three angels!”" 
Revelation9:1 Then the fifth angel sounded his trumpet, and I saw a star that fell from heaven to earth, and he was handed the key to the shaft leading down to the pit of the deep." 
Revelation9:2 He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit and a blanket of smoke began to rise out of it, like the smoke of a giant furnace. The sun and the atmosphere were darkened with the smoke rising from the shaft." 
Revelation9:3 And out of the smoke appeared locusts swarming onto the earth, and they were given authority like that of scorpions to inflict pain." 
Revelation9:4 They were told not to harm the grass, or any green growth or any tree, but only to afflict those who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads." 
Revelation9:5 The locusts were given authority to torment them for five months, but not to kill them. Their painful torment is like the scorpion’s sting," 
Revelation9:6 and during that time people will seek death but will not find it; they will long to die but death will elude them. 
Revelation9:7 The locusts had the appearance of horses equipped for battle. On their heads were what seemed like golden crowns. And their faces were like human faces. 
Revelation9:8 Their hair was long, like women’s hair, and their teeth like lion’s teeth." 
Revelation9:9 They wore breastplates that seemed like iron, and their wings made a sound like the noise of horses and chariots rushing into battle." 
Revelation9:10 They had tails and stingers like scorpions, with power to injure people for five months." 
Revelation9:11 The angel of the bottomless pit was king over them, and his name in Hebrew is Destruction and in Greek Destroyer." 
Revelation9:12 This is but the first woe; there are still two more to come. 
Revelation9:13 Then the sixth angel sounded his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God," 
Revelation9:14 responding to the sixth angel, who blew his trumpet, “Set free the four angels who are confined at the great river Euphrates.”" 
Revelation9:15 So the four angels were released, who had been prepared for the right hour, day, month, and year, to kill a third of humanity." 
Revelation9:16 I heard the number of soldiers on horseback—it was twice ten thousand times ten thousand. 
Revelation9:17 And in my vision I saw the horses with riders wearing breastplates of fire and of sapphire and of sulfur. The horses had lions’ heads breathing out fire and smoke and sulfur. 
Revelation9:18 They killed a third of humanity by these three plagues—the fire, the smoke, and the sulfur that came from their mouths." 
Revelation9:19 For the lethal power of the horses was in their mouths and their tails, and their tails had snakes’ heads that inflict injuries." 
Revelation9:20 Those not killed by these plagues did not repent of their deeds so that they would stop worshiping demons and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone, and wood—blind and mute idols that have to be carried around." 
Revelation9:21 And they did not repent of their murders or their sorceries or their thefts or their immorality. 
Revelation10:1 Then I saw another extremely powerful messenger coming out of heaven, robed in a cloud. There was a halo over his head like a rainbow; his face shined bright like the sun, and his legs like pillars of fire." 
Revelation10:2 He held an opened scroll in his hand. He set his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land 
Revelation10:3 and gave a tremendous shout, like a lion’s roar. When he shouted, the seven thunders responded, rumbling out their messages." 
Revelation10:4 I was about to write the messages of the seven thunders, but I heard a heavenly voice say to me: Don’t write a word, but place a seal on what the seven thunders have spoken." 
Revelation10:5 Then the mighty angel whom I saw astride the sea and the land raised his right hand to heaven 
Revelation10:6 and swore an oath by him who lives for an eternity of eternities, the Creator of heaven and earth and sea and all that is in them: No more delay!" 
Revelation10:7 For in the day when the seventh angel is to sound his trumpet, the mystery of God will be fulfilled, just as he announced to his servants the prophets." 
Revelation10:8 Then the heavenly voice spoke to me again: Go, take the open scroll from the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land." 
Revelation10:9 I went up to the angel who stood on the sea and the land and told him to give me the little scroll. Then he said to me, “Take it, and eat it. It will be sour in your stomach but sweet as honey in your mouth.”" 
Revelation10:10 I took the little scroll from the hand of the mighty angel and ate it. Indeed, it was sweet as honey to taste, but after I had eaten it, my stomach turned bitter." 
Revelation10:11 Then they said to me, “You must go back and prophesy again to many peoples, and nations, and languages, and kings!”" 
Revelation11:1 Then a measuring rod, like a staff, was given to me and I was told: Rise and measure God’s temple and the altar and count those who worship in it." 
Revelation11:2 But exclude the courtyard outside the temple, for it has been given over to the nations, and for forty-two months they will trample on the holy city." 
Revelation11:3 And I will authorize my two witnesses to prophesy, wearing sackcloth for one thousand two hundred and sixty days." 
Revelation11:4 These two witnesses are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord God of the whole earth. 
Revelation11:5 If anyone attempts to harm them, fire will flow out of their mouths and consume their foes. All who seek to harm them will die in this way." 
Revelation11:6 They have authority to shut the heavens so that no rain will fall during the days of their prophesying. They have authority over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every plague imaginable, as often as they desire." 
Revelation11:7 When their testimony is completed, the beast that comes up from the bottomless pit will wage war against them and conquer them and kill them." 
Revelation11:8 Their dead bodies will lie on the street of the great city that is symbolically called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was also crucified." 
Revelation11:9 For three and a half days people from every ethnicity, tribe, nation, and language will see their corpses, because no one is permitted to bury them." 
Revelation11:10 The entire world will gloat over them and celebrate and exchange gifts, because these two prophets had condemned those who dwell on the earth." 
Revelation11:11 After three and a half days God’s breath of life entered them and they stood to their feet, terrifying all who saw them." 
Revelation11:12 Then they heard a loud shout from heaven saying to them: Come up here! The two prophets climbed up into heaven in a cloud while their enemies watched. 
Revelation11:13 At that very moment there was a powerful earthquake and a tenth of the city collapsed, killing seven thousand people. The rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven." 
Revelation11:14 Now the second woe has passed and the third is coming swiftly. 
Revelation11:15 Then the seventh angel sounded his trumpet, and a loud voice broke forth in heaven, saying: “The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our God and of his Anointed One! He will reign supreme for an eternity of eternities!”" 
Revelation11:16 Then the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell facedown before him and worshiped him," 
Revelation11:17 saying: “We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is, and who was, because you have established your great and limitless power and begun to reign!" 
Revelation11:18 The nations were furious, and you became furious, and the time for judging the dead has come. The time has come to reward your servants, the prophets and the holy ones and all who reverence your name, both small and great. And the time has come to destroy those who corrupt the earth!”" 
Revelation11:19 Then God’s temple was opened in heaven and the ark of his covenant was clearly visible inside his temple. And there were blinding flashes of lightning, voices roaring, startling thunderclaps, a massive earthquake, and a great hailstorm!" 
Revelation12:1 Then an astonishing miracle-sign appeared in heaven. I saw a woman clothed with the brilliance of the sun, and the moon was under her feet. She was wearing on her head a victor’s crown of twelve stars." 
Revelation12:2 She was pregnant and was crying out in labor pains, in the agony of giving birth." 
Revelation12:3 Consider this: another astonishing miracle-sign appeared in heaven! I saw a huge, fiery-red dragon with ten horns and seven heads, each wearing a royal crown. He was wearing seven royal crowns." 
Revelation12:4 The dragon’s massive tail swept across the sky and dragged away a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon crouched before the woman who was about to give birth—poised to devour the baby the moment it was born. 
Revelation12:5 She gave birth to a man-child who is about to rule and shepherd every nation with an iron scepter, and her son was caught up to God and to his throne." 
Revelation12:6 The woman fled into the wilderness, where God had already prepared a safe place for her, and there they nourished her for one thousand two hundred and sixty days." 
Revelation12:7 Then a terrible war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the great dragon. The dragon and his angels fought back. 
Revelation12:8 But the dragon did not have the power to win and they could not regain their place in heaven. 
Revelation12:9 So the great dragon was thrown down once and for all. He was the serpent, the ancient snake called the devil, and Satan, who deceives the whole earth. He was cast down into the earth and his angels along with him." 
Revelation12:10 Then I heard a triumphant voice in heaven proclaiming: “Now salvation and power are set in place, and the kingdom reign of our God and the ruling authority of his Anointed One are established. For the accuser of our brothers and sisters, who relentlessly accused them day and night before our God, has now been defeated —cast out once and for all!" 
Revelation12:11 They conquered him completely through the blood of the Lamb and the powerful word of his testimony. They triumphed because they did not love and cling to their own lives, even when faced with death." 
Revelation12:12 So rejoice, you heavens, and every heavenly being! But woe to the earth and the sea, for the devil has come down to you with great fury, because he knows his time is short.”" 
Revelation12:13 Now, when the dragon realized that he had been cast down to the earth, he set off in pursuit of the woman who had given birth to the man-child." 
Revelation12:14 But the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman so that she could fly and escape into the wilderness to her own special place, where she was nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, away from the face of the dragon." 
Revelation12:15 Then the dragon spewed from his mouth a raging river of water to sweep her away with the flood. 
Revelation12:16 But the earth came to the rescue of the woman and at once opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth. 
Revelation12:17 Then the dragon became enraged at the woman and went off to make war against the remnant of her offspring who follow the commands of God and have the testimony of Jesus. 
Revelation12:18 And the dragon took his stand on the sand of the seashore. 
Revelation13:1 Then I saw a wild beast rising from the sea with ten horns and seven heads. On its horns were ten royal crowns, and on its heads were blasphemous names." 
Revelation13:2 It was like a leopard with feet like a bear’s, and its mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon shared his power, throne, and great authority with the wild beast." 
Revelation13:3 One of the heads of the wild beast seemed to have received a deathly wound, but the wound had been healed. After this, the whole world was filled with fascination and followed the wild beast." 
Revelation13:4 They worshiped the dragon because he had given the beast its ruling authority. They also worshiped the wild beast, saying, “Who is like the wild beast? And who is able to make war against him?”" 
Revelation13:5 The wild beast was given a mouth to speak boastful and blasphemous words, and he was permitted to exercise authority for forty-two months." 
Revelation13:6 So the wild beast began to blaspheme against God, blaspheming his holy name and his dwelling place; that is, those who dwell in heaven." 
Revelation13:7 The beast was given the authority to wage war against the holy believers. And he was given authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation." 
Revelation13:8 Everyone on earth will worship the wild beast—those whose names have not been written from the foundation of the world in the Book of the Life of the Lamb who was slain. 
Revelation13:9 If anyone has been given ears to hear, he’d better listen!" 
Revelation13:10 For the one who leads others into captivity, into captivity he goes. The one who kills others by the sword, by the sword he will be put to death. This is a call for the endurance and faithfulness of the holy believers." 
Revelation13:11 Then I saw another wild beast coming up from the ground. It had two horns like a ram, but it spoke like the dragon." 
Revelation13:12 It operated in all the authority of the first beast on its behalf, causing the earth and its inhabitants to worship the first beast, whose mortal wound had been healed." 
Revelation13:13 It performed great miracle-signs, even publicly causing fire to fall out of heaven to the earth." 
Revelation13:14 And through these startling miracles that he performed on behalf of the first beast, he deceived the world, telling the people to erect a statue in the image of the beast that had been wounded by the sword and yet lived." 
Revelation13:15 The beast from the earth was empowered to breathe life into the image of the first beast so that it could speak and kill those who refused to worship its image. 
Revelation13:16 It also caused everyone, small and great, rich and poor, free and bound, to be marked on the right hand or on the forehead." 
Revelation13:17 This meant no one could buy or sell unless they had the mark; that is, the name of the beast or its number." 
Revelation13:18 This will require wisdom to understand: Let the one with insight interpret the number of the wild beast, for it is humanity’s number —666." 
Revelation14:1 Then I looked, and behold—there was the young Lamb standing on Mount Zion and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father’s name written on their foreheads." 
Revelation14:2 And I heard a tremendous sound coming out of heaven, like the roar of a waterfall and like the earsplitting sound of a thunderclap. The sound of music that I heard was like the sound of many harpists playing their harps." 
Revelation14:3 And they were singing a wonderful new song before the throne, in front of the four living creatures, and in front of the twenty-four elders." 
Revelation14:4 No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed and who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are virgins, and they join themselves to the Lamb wherever he goes. They have been purchased from humanity and brought forth as the firstfruits for God and the Lamb." 
Revelation14:5 Their words are always true; they are without flaw. 
Revelation14:6 Then I witnessed another angel flying in the sky, carrying a message of eternal good news to announce to the earth—to every tribe, language, people, and nation." 
Revelation14:7 With a loud voice he shouted, “You must reverence God and glorify him, for the time has come for him to judge. Worship at the feet of the Creator of heaven, earth, sea, and springs of water.”" 
Revelation14:8 Then a second angel followed, declaring, “She fell! She fell! Babylon the great is fallen! She once seduced the nations and made them all drink the wine of the passion of her harlotry!”" 
Revelation14:9 Then a third angel followed them, shouting with a mighty voice, “Whoever worships the wild beast and its image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand," 
Revelation14:10 will also drink the wine of God’s wrath. This wine has been poured out and mixed in the cup of his indignation. They will be tormented with sulfur and fire in the presence of holy angels and of the Lamb. 
Revelation14:11 And the smoke of their severe suffering ascends into ages upon ages. Those who worship the wild beast and its image and receive the mark of its name will have no rest day or night.” 
Revelation14:12 This is a call for the endurance and faithfulness of the holy believers—those who follow God’s commands and cling to the faith of Jesus. 
Revelation14:13 Then I heard a voice from the heavenly realm, saying, “Write this: Blessed are the dead—the ones dying in the Lord from now on.” “Yes,” says the Holy Spirit, “they will rest from their trouble, for their deeds will live on!”" 
Revelation14:14 I looked and behold—I saw a white cloud, and sitting upon it was one like the Son of Man, wearing a golden crown and holding a sharp sickle." 
Revelation14:15 Another angel came out of the temple, shouting out to the one sitting upon the cloud, “Take your sickle and reap, for the time of reaping the harvest has come and the harvest of the earth is ripe!”" 
Revelation14:16 So the one sitting upon the white cloud gave his sickle a mighty swing over the earth and reaped its harvest. 
Revelation14:17 Then another angel came out of the heavenly temple, and he too had a sharp sickle." 
Revelation14:18 And another angel came out from the altar of incense —the angel with authority over fire. He shouted out with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, saying, “Take now your sharp sickle and harvest the clusters of the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe.”" 
Revelation14:19 So the angel gave his sickle a mighty swing over the earth and gathered the grapes from the vine of the earth and threw them into the great winepress of the wrath of God. 
Revelation14:20 And the winepress was trodden outside the city until blood poured out of the winepress as high as the horse’s bridle for a distance of one thousand six hundred stadia. 
Revelation15:1 Then I witnessed another great and astonishing sign in heaven: seven angels bringing the last seven plagues, for with them the wrath of God is finished." 
Revelation15:2 Then I saw what looked like a vast sea of glass blended with fiery flames. Standing beside the sea were those who continually conquer the wild beast, his image and the number of his name." 
Revelation15:3 They each held the harps of God and they were singing the song of Moses, God’s servant, and the song of the Lamb: “Mighty and marvelous are your miracles, Lord Yahweh, God Almighty! Righteous and true are your ways, O Sovereign King of the ages!" 
Revelation15:4 Who will not reverence you with awe, O Lord, and bring glory to your name? For you alone are holy, and all nations will come and bow in worship before you, as your blessings have revealed.”" 
Revelation15:5 After these things I looked, and behold, the inner sanctuary of the heavenly “tabernacle of testimony” was opened before my eyes." 
Revelation15:6 The seven angels with the seven last plagues came out of the sanctuary in glistening robes of bright linen and golden sashes around their chests. 
Revelation15:7 Then one of the four living creatures gave each of the seven angels a golden bowl full of the wrath of God, who lives forever and ever." 
Revelation15:8 The sanctuary was filled with the thick cloud of smoke billowing out from the glory and power of God—and no one could even enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed. 
Revelation16:1 Then I heard a loud voice from within the sanctuary telling the seven angels, “Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.”" 
Revelation16:2 So the first angel poured his bowl upon the earth, causing ugly and painful sores to break out on the people who had the mark of the wild beast and worshiped his image." 
Revelation16:3 Then the second angel poured his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of the dead—every living thing in the sea died." 
Revelation16:4 The third angel poured his bowl into the rivers and springs of water, and they became blood. And I heard the angel of the waters say:" 
Revelation16:5 “O holy One, who are and were, you are righteous, for you have judged these things," 
Revelation16:6 because they shed the blood of your saints and prophets. They got what they deserved, for you gave them blood to drink!”" 
Revelation16:7 Then I heard a voice from before the altar reply: “Yes, O Lord God, the Almighty! Every judicial verdict you make is just and right.”" 
Revelation16:8 Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it began to burn the people with a scorching heat." 
Revelation16:9 Though they endured the fierce heat, yet the people continued to blaspheme God. They cursed the name of God, who had authority over these plagues, and refused to repent and give him glory." 
Revelation16:10 The fifth angel poured his bowl on the throne of the wild beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness. People were in agony and gnawed their tongues" 
Revelation16:11 and cursed the God of heaven because of their painful sores, refusing to repent of their deeds." 
Revelation16:12 The sixth angel poured his bowl on “the good and abounding river,” and it completely dried up in order to prepare the way for the kings of the east." 
Revelation16:13 Then I saw three unclean spirits like frogs belched from the mouths of the dragon, the wild beast, and the false prophet." 
Revelation16:14 They were demonic spirits performing signs, and they entered into the kings of the world to draw them into battle on the great day of God, the Almighty." 
Revelation16:15 “Behold, I come like a thief! God’s blessing is with the one who remains awake and fully clothed in me and will not walk about naked, exposed to disgrace.”" 
Revelation16:16 The demonic spirits assembled the kings together at the place called in Hebrew the “Mount of the Governor.” 
Revelation16:17 The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out from the temple and from the throne, saying: “Here it comes!”" 
Revelation16:18 Then there were flashes of lightning, voices, crashes of thunder, and a massive earthquake—the most severe to shake the earth since the creation of man, so tremendous was that earthquake!" 
Revelation16:19 It split the great city Babylon into three parts, and other cities of the nations collapsed. For God remembered great Babylon and her winecup filled with his fiery wrath." 
Revelation16:20 Every island fled away and the mountains were no more. 
Revelation16:21 Enormous hailstones, each weighing nearly one hundred pounds, fell from the sky and struck the people, yet they continued to curse God because of the horrendous plague of hail." 
Revelation17:1 Then one of the seven angels with the seven bowls approached me and said, “Come, and I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who sits enthroned on many waters." 
Revelation17:2 The kings of the earth have fornicated with her, and the people of earth are drunk on the wine of her prostitution.”" 
Revelation17:3 Then the angel carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a wild, bloodred beast with seven heads and ten horns, and it was covered with blasphemous names." 
Revelation17:4 The woman was robed in purple and scarlet and was glittering with gold, precious stones, and pearls. She was holding in her hand a golden chalice brimming full with defiling obscenities and the filth of her lewdness." 
Revelation17:5 On her forehead was written these mysterious titles: “The great Babylon, mother of prostitutes and of the abominations of the earth.”" 
Revelation17:6 I saw the woman was drunk with the blood of God’s holy believers—drunk on the blood of the loyal martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I was utterly astonished!" 
Revelation17:7 But the angel said to me, “Why are you so astonished? I will reveal to you the mystery of the woman, and of the wild beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her." 
Revelation17:8 The wild beast you saw once was, now is not, and is destined to ascend out of the deep and go to destruction. All those whose names have not been written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world will be utterly astonished when they see the wild beast because he once was, now is not, and is about to rise." 
Revelation17:9 “This requires a mind that has wisdom to interpret: The seven heads of the beast are seven mountains the woman sits upon; they are also seven kings. 
Revelation17:10 Five kings have fallen, one is, and the other has not yet come—and when he comes he must remain only a little while." 
Revelation17:11 The wild beast that was but now is not represents an eighth king who is from one of the seven, and he is going to destruction." 
Revelation17:12 “The ten horns that you saw represent ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but they and the wild beast are destined to receive authority as kings for a short reign of one hour." 
Revelation17:13 They are united in yielding their power and authority to the wild beast. 
Revelation17:14 They will wage war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and King of kings! Those who are with him will also conquer them, and they are called ‘chosen ones’ and ‘faithful ones.’ ”" 
Revelation17:15 And he said to me, “The waters that you saw, upon which the great prostitute is seated, represent peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages." 
Revelation17:16 The ten horns and the wild beast will hate the great prostitute and will make her a ruin. They will reduce her to nakedness, and they will devour her flesh and burn her up with fire." 
Revelation17:17 For God has put it in their hearts to carry out his purpose for her by agreeing to give their kingdom to the wild beast until the words of God are fulfilled. 
Revelation17:18 As for the woman you saw, she is the great city Babylon, which rules over the kings of the earth.”" 
Revelation18:1 After these things, I saw another angel coming from the heavenly realm with great authority, and the earth was flooded with the brilliance of his splendor." 
Revelation18:2 He shouted out with a thunderous voice: “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! She has become a demonic dwelling place, a prison for every unclean spirit, unclean bird, and every unclean, detestable beast." 
Revelation18:3 All the nations have drunk of the wine of her immoral passion, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and merchants of the earth have grown wealthy because of her power and luxury.”" 
Revelation18:4 Then I heard another voice from heaven saying: “My people, come out from her so that you don’t participate in her sins and have no share with her in her plagues," 
Revelation18:5 because her sins are heaped as high as heaven and God has remembered her vileness. 
Revelation18:6 So repay to her double the same treatment that she has treated others with— pay her back double for all her deeds and make her drink twice the brew she gave to others! 
Revelation18:7 With the same measure she exalted herself and lived luxuriously, give her that measure of torment and grief, because she said in her heart, ‘I am no widow; I rule as a queen! I will never experience grief.’" 
Revelation18:8 Therefore, her plagues will fall on her in one day— disease, famine and mourning. She will be burned with fire. For mighty is the Lord God who judges her!”" 
Revelation18:9 The kings of the earth who fornicated with her and lived in luxury with her will weep and wail over her when they see the smoke of the fire that burns her up. 
Revelation18:10 And they will stand far off, in fear of her torment, saying: “Oh no! You who were once the great and powerful city Babylon, now in one hour your complete devastation has come!”" 
Revelation18:11 The earth’s merchants weep and mourn for her because no one buys their merchandise anymore: 
Revelation18:12 their gold, silver, jewels, and pearls, their fine linen, purple cloth, silk, and scarlet cloth, all kinds of things made from expensive wood, ivory, bronze, iron, and marble," 
Revelation18:13 quantities of the finest cinnamon, spice, incense, frankincense, and myrrh, wine, olive oil, wheat, and the finest flour, sheep, cattle, horses, and their four-wheeled carriages, and the trafficking of the bodies and souls of people." 
Revelation18:14 And they will say: The splendid delicacies for which your soul craved have departed from you. All your elegance and splendor have disappeared, never to be seen again." 
Revelation18:15 Those who sold these things and grew wealthy through their business with her will stand far off, terrified over her torment. They will weep and mourn, saying:" 
Revelation18:16 “How horrible! The great city that once clothed herself with fine linen and purple and scarlet cloth glittering with gold, with jewels and with pearls—" 
Revelation18:17 in one brief moment such vast wealth is now laid waste!” Every ship’s captain and his crew, every seafarer and mariner, watched from far away" 
Revelation18:18 and cried out as they saw her go up in flames: “What city was ever like the great city Babylon?” 
Revelation18:19 As a sign of their dismay, they threw dust on their heads and shouted with sobs and grief: “How horrible, so horrible, O great city Babylon! For in one moment you suffered such destruction— you who once made the merchants on the sea so very wealthy." 
Revelation18:20 Rejoice over her, O heaven You apostles and prophets and holy believers, rejoice! For on your behalf God pronounced the judgment against her that she wanted to bring upon you!”" 
Revelation18:21 Then a mighty angel took up a stone, like a huge millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying: “With this kind of sudden violence, the great city Babylon will be thrown down and exist no more." 
Revelation18:22 The music of harps, minstrels, flutes, and trumpets will never grace your city again. No artisan of any trade will ever be found in you again, and the noise of factories falls silent." 
Revelation18:23 The light of a lamp will never shine in you again, Nor will the joyous laughter of a wedding be heard in you. Your merchants were once the tycoons of the world, But you deceived all the nations by your sorcery." 
Revelation18:24 For the bloodstains of the holy believers and the prophets and all who were slaughtered were all over you!” 
Revelation19:1 After this I heard what seemed to be the roar of a great multitude of voices, saying: “Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power to our God!" 
Revelation19:2 All his judgments are right and true, For he has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality. He has avenged on her the blood of his loving servants.”" 
Revelation19:3 And again they shouted: “Hallelujah! The smoke from her destruction goes up forever and ever!” 
Revelation19:4 The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell facedown and worshiped God, who sits on the throne, saying in agreement: “Amen! Hallelujah!”" 
Revelation19:5 Then a voice came from the throne, saying: “Praise our God, all you his loving servants and all who reverence and honor him— those who are lowly and those who are great!”" 
Revelation19:6 Then I heard what seemed to be the thunderous voice of a great multitude, like the sound of a massive waterfall and mighty peals of thunder, crying out: “Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns!" 
Revelation19:7 Let us rejoice and exalt him and give him glory, because the wedding celebration of the Lamb has come. And his bride has made herself ready." 
Revelation19:8 Fine linen, shining bright and clear, has been given to her to wear, and the fine linen represents the righteous deeds of his holy believers.”" 
Revelation19:9 Then the angel said to me, “Write these words: Wonderfully blessed are those who are invited to feast at the wedding celebration of the Lamb!” And then he said to me, “These are the true words of God.”" 
Revelation19:10 At this I fell facedown at the angel’s feet to worship him, but he stopped me and said, “Don’t do this! For I am only a fellow servant with you and one of your brothers who clings to what Jesus testifies. Worship God. The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.”" 
Revelation19:11 Then I saw heaven opened, and suddenly a white horse appeared. The name of the one riding it was Faithful and True, and with pure righteousness he judges and rides to battle." 
Revelation19:12 He wore many regal crowns, and his eyes were flashing like flames of fire. He had a secret name inscribed on him that’s known only to himself." 
Revelation19:13 He wore a robe dipped in blood, and his title is called the Word of God." 
Revelation19:14 Following him on white horses were the armies of heaven, wearing white fine linen, pure and bright." 
Revelation19:15 A sharp sword came from his mouth with which to conquer the nations, and he will shepherd them with an iron scepter. He will trample out the wine in the winepress of the wrath of God." 
Revelation19:16 On his robe and on his thigh he had inscribed a name: King of kings and Lord of lords. 
Revelation19:17 Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, shouting to all the flying birds of the sky, “Come and gather for God’s great supper!" 
Revelation19:18 Come and devour the flesh of the kings, generals, and soldiers, the flesh of horses and their riders, the flesh of all people, slave or free, lowly or famous.”" 
Revelation19:19 Then I saw the wild beast and the kings of the earth with their armies gathered to wage war against the rider on the white horse and against his armies. 
Revelation19:20 The wild beast was captured, as was the false prophet who had performed miracle-signs in his presence. (It was by these miracle-signs that he had deceived those with the mark of the wild beast and those who worshiped its image.) The wild beast and the false prophet were both thrown alive into the lake of fire burning with sulfur," 
Revelation19:21 and their armies were killed by the sharp sword that came from the mouth of the rider on the white horse. And all the birds gorged themselves with their flesh. 
Revelation20:1 Then I saw a mighty angel descending from the heavenly realm, holding a heavy chain and a key—the key of the deep." 
Revelation20:2 He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent known as the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years." 
Revelation20:3 The mighty angel threw him into the pit, locked it, and sealed it so that he could no longer deceive the nations until the thousand years were over. (After that he must be loosed for a brief time.)" 
Revelation20:4 Then I saw thrones, and those who sat on them were given the authority to judge. I also saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and for the Word of God. They had refused to worship the wild beast or its image and did not have their foreheads or hands marked by the wild beast. They lived and reigned with the Christ for one thousand years." 
Revelation20:5 This is the first resurrection. (The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended.) 
Revelation20:6 Wonderfully blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection! The second death holds no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of the Christ. And they will reign as kings with him a thousand years!" 
Revelation20:7 After the thousand years are over, Satan will be let loose from his prison" 
Revelation20:8 and will go out and deceive the nations of the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. He will bring them together for battle, and they will be as numerous as grains of sand on the seashore." 
Revelation20:9 They spread out over the earth and surrounded the camp of God’s holy believers and the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and completely destroyed them. 
Revelation20:10 Then the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the same place with the wild beast and the false prophet—the lake of fire and sulfur—where they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. 
Revelation20:11 Then I saw a great, dazzling-white throne and the One who sits on it. Heaven and earth fled from his presence and they were no more." 
Revelation20:12 I saw the dead, the lowly and the famous alike, standing before the throne. Books were opened, and then another book was opened: the Book of Life. The dead were judged by what they had done as recorded in the books." 
Revelation20:13 And the sea gave up the dead souls that were in it. Then death and the underworld gave up their dead, and all were judged according to what they had done." 
Revelation20:14 Then death and the realm of the dead were cast into the lake of fire, for the lake of fire is the second death." 
Revelation20:15 And anyone whose name was not recorded in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire. 
Revelation21:1 Then in a vision I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and earth had passed away, and the sea no longer existed." 
Revelation21:2 I saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, descending out of the heavenly realm from the presence of God, like a pleasing bride that had been prepared for her husband, adorned for her wedding." 
Revelation21:3 And I heard a thunderous voice from the throne, saying: “Look! God’s tabernacle is with human beings. And from now on he will tabernacle with them as their God. Now God himself will have his home with them— ‘God-with-them’ will be their God!" 
Revelation21:4 He will wipe away every tear from their eyes and eliminate death entirely. No one will mourn or weep any longer. The pain of wounds will no longer exist, for the old order has ceased.”" 
Revelation21:5 And God-Enthroned spoke to me and said, “Consider this! I am making everything to be new and fresh. Write down at once all that I have told you, because each word is trustworthy and dependable.”" 
Revelation21:6 Then he said to me, “It has been accomplished! For I am the Aleph and the Tav, the beginning and the end. I will give water to all who are thirsty. As my gracious gift, they will continuously drink from the fountain of living water." 
Revelation21:7 The conquering ones will inherit these gifts from me. I will continue to be their God and they will continue being children for me. 
Revelation21:8 But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the despicable, the murderers, the perverts, the sorcerers, the idolaters, and all deceivers, they will find their place in the lake of fire and sulfur, which is the second death.”" 
Revelation21:9 Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the last seven plagues came to me and said, “Come. I will show you the beautiful bride, the wife of the Lamb.”" 
Revelation21:10 He carried me away in the realm of the Spirit to the top of a great, high mountain. There he showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God." 
Revelation21:11 It was infused with the glory of God, and its radiance was like that of a very rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal." 
Revelation21:12 It had a massive, high wall with twelve gates, and each gate had an angel. Each gate had written upon it a name of one of the twelve tribes of Israel—" 
Revelation21:13 three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three gates on the south, and three gates on the west." 
Revelation21:14 The city wall had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb." 
Revelation21:15 The angel who spoke with me had a gold measuring rod to measure the city, its gates and walls." 
Revelation21:16 The city was laid out in a perfect square; its length, width, and height were equal. So he measured the city with his rod, and it was 12,000 stadia, with equal dimensions for its width, length, and height." 
Revelation21:17 He also measured the wall at 144 cubits, according to the measure of a man, which is angelic." 
Revelation21:18 The city was pure gold, clear as crystal, and its wall was made of jasper." 
Revelation21:19 The twelve foundations of the wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone—the first was jasper, the second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald," 
Revelation21:20 the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh turquoise, and the twelfth amethyst." 
Revelation21:21 The twelve gates are twelve pearls—each gate made of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, clear as crystal." 
Revelation21:22 I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb." 
Revelation21:23 The city has no need for the sun or moon to shine, for the glory of God is its light, and its lamp is the Lamb." 
Revelation21:24 The people will walk by its light and the kings of the earth will bring their wealth into it. 
Revelation21:25 Its gates will never be shut by day—standing always open—because there is no night there. 
Revelation21:26 People will bring the glory and wealth of the nations into it. 
Revelation21:27 Evil will not enter, nor anyone who does what is abhorrent or deceitful, but only those whose names are written in the Book of the Life of the Lamb." 
Revelation22:1 Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, flowing with water clear as crystal, continuously pouring out from the throne of God and of the Lamb." 
Revelation22:2 The river was flowing in the middle of the street of the city, and on either side of the river was the Tree of Life, with its twelve kinds of ripe fruit according to each month of the year. The leaves of the Tree of Life are for the healing of the nations." 
Revelation22:3 And every curse will be broken and no longer exist, for the throne of God and of the Lamb will be there in the city. His loving servants will serve him;" 
Revelation22:4 they will always see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads." 
Revelation22:5 Night will be no more. They will never need the light of the sun or a lamp, because the Lord God will shine on them. And they will reign as kings forever and ever!" 
Revelation22:6 Then the angel said to me, “These words are entirely trustworthy and true, for the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his loving servants what must occur swiftly.”" 
Revelation22:7 “Behold, I come quickly! Wonderfully blessed is the one who carefully guards the words of the prophecy of this book!”" 
Revelation22:8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things, and when I heard and saw it all, I fell facedown to worship the messenger who showed me these things." 
Revelation22:8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things, and when I heard and saw it all, I fell facedown to worship the messenger who showed me these things." 
Revelation22:9 But he said to me, “Don’t do it! I am but a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets, and with those who cling to the words of this book. Worship God!”" 
Revelation22:10 And he said to me, “Don’t keep secret the prophetic words of this book, for the time is near." 
Revelation22:11 Let the evildoers be at their worst and the morally filthy continue in their depravity—yet the righteous will still do what is right, and the holy will still be holy.”" 
Revelation22:12 “Behold, I am coming quickly! I bring my reward with me to repay everyone according to their works." 
Revelation22:13 I am the Aleph and the Tav, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the Completion.”" 
Revelation22:14 Wonderfully blessed are those who wash their robes white so they can access the Tree of Life and enter the city of bliss by its open gates. 
Revelation22:15 Those not permitted to enter are outside: the malicious hypocrites, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, murderers, idolaters, and every lover of lies." 
Revelation22:16 “I, Jesus, sent my angel to you to give you this testimony to share with the congregations. I am the bright Morning Star, both David’s spiritual root and his descendant.”" 
Revelation22:17 “Come,” says the Holy Spirit and the Bride in divine duet. Let everyone who hears this duet join them in saying, “Come.” Let everyone gripped with spiritual thirst say, “Come.” And let everyone who craves the gift of living water come and drink it freely. “Come.”" 
Revelation22:18 I testify to everyone who hears the prophetic words of this book: If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book." 
Revelation22:19 And if anyone subtracts from the prophetic words of this book, God will remove his portion from the Tree of Life and in the holy city, which are described in this book." 
Revelation22:20 The one who testifies to these things says, “Yes, I am coming quickly.” Amen! Come, Lord Jesus!" 
