Genesis40:15 Men took hold of me in the land of the Hebrews and they brought me here. Even here, I have not done anything wrong. I should not be in this prison.’" 
Genesis43:32 The servants gave food to Joseph at his own table. The brothers sat together at a different table. And the Egyptians who ate there also sat together. The Egyptians could not eat a meal with Hebrews, because they were too proud to do that." 
1Samuel14:11 Jonathan and the young man stood where the Philistine soldiers could see them. The Philistines said, ‘Look! The Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have been hiding.’" 
Ezra5:1 Then the prophets Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, spoke messages from God. They served Israel's God, and they spoke with his authority. They told God's message to the Jews who lived in Jerusalem and in other parts of Judea." 
Nehemiah7:66 The number of all the people who returned to Judea was 42,360." 
Matthew1:1 This is a list of the ancestors of Jesus Christ. Jesus was a descendant of King David. David was a descendant of Abraham. 
Matthew1:2 Abraham was the father of Isaac. Isaac was the father of Jacob. Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers. 
Matthew1:3 Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah. Tamar was their mother. Perez was the father of Hezron. Hezron was the father of Ram. 
Matthew1:4 Ram was the father of Amminadab. Amminadab was the father of Nahshon. Nahshon was the father of Salmon. 
Matthew1:5 Salmon was the father of Boaz. Rahab was his mother. Boaz was the father of Obed. Ruth was his mother. Obed was the father of Jesse. 
Matthew1:6 Jesse was the father of King David. David was Solomon's father. Solomon's mother was the wife of Uriah. 
Matthew1:7 Solomon was the father of Rehoboam. Rehoboam was the father of Abijah. Abijah was the father of Asa. 
Matthew1:8 Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat was the father of Jehoram. Jehoram was the father of Uzziah. 
Matthew1:9 Uzziah was the father of Jotham. Jotham was the father of Ahaz. Ahaz was the father of Hezekiah. 
Matthew1:10 Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh. Manasseh was the father of Amon. Amon was the father of Josiah. 
Matthew1:11 Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers. This was at the time when Babylon's army took the Israelites away to Babylon as their prisoners. 
Matthew1:12 Here is a list of Jesus' ancestors who lived after that time: Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel. 
Matthew1:13 Zerubbabel was the father of Abiud. Abiud was the father of Eliakim. Eliakim was the father of Azor. 
Matthew1:14 Azor was the father of Zadok. Zadok was the father of Akim. Akim was the father of Eliud. 
Matthew1:15 Eliud was the father of Eleazar. Eleazar was the father of Matthan. Matthan was the father of Jacob. 
Matthew1:16 Jacob was the father of Joseph. Joseph married Mary. Mary was the mother of Jesus. Jesus is the one who is called Christ, the Messiah." 
Matthew1:17 So there were 14 generations from Abraham to David. There were another 14 generations from David to the time they took the Israelites away to Babylon. Then there were 14 generations from that time until Jesus, the Messiah, was born." 
Matthew1:18 This is how Jesus Christ was born. His mother's name was Mary. She had promised to marry a man called Joseph. Then she discovered that she was pregnant. This happened before they started to live together. It was the Holy Spirit that caused this to happen to her. 
Matthew1:19 Joseph was a good man. He wanted to do what was right. He did not want Mary to become ashamed in front of people. So he decided to stop their marriage secretly. 
Matthew1:20 He thought about what he should do. Then an angel came from the Lord God to see him. The angel came to Joseph while he was dreaming. The angel said, ‘Joseph, you who are from the family of King David, take Mary home as your wife. Do not be afraid to do that. The baby that is growing inside her is from the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew1:21 Mary will give birth to a son. He will save his people from their sins. Because of that, you must give him the name “Jesus”.’" 
Matthew1:22 The Lord God had given a message about this to one of his prophets long ago. Now that message would become true. 
Matthew1:23 The prophet had said, ‘A young woman who has never had sex will have a baby boy. People will call her son Immanuel.’ This name means ‘God is with us’." 
Matthew1:24 Then Joseph woke up from his sleep. He did what God's angel had said to him. He married Mary and he took her to his home. 
Matthew1:25 Joseph did not have sex with Mary until after the baby boy was born. He said that the boy's name should be Jesus. 
Matthew2:1 Jesus was born in a town called Bethlehem, in Judea. King Herod ruled Judea at that time. After Jesus was born, some wise men came to Jerusalem from a country in the east." 
Matthew2:1 Jesus was born in a town called Bethlehem, in Judea. King Herod ruled Judea at that time. After Jesus was born, some wise men came to Jerusalem from a country in the east." 
Matthew2:2 When they arrived there, they asked people, ‘Where is the baby who has been born as the king of the Jews? We saw his special star when it first appeared in the sky. So now we have come here to worship him.’" 
Matthew2:3 When King Herod heard what the men said, he was very upset. All the people in Jerusalem were afraid too." 
Matthew2:4 Then Herod asked all the leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law to meet with him. He asked them, ‘Where will God's Messiah be born?’" 
Matthew2:5 They replied, ‘The Messiah will be born in Bethlehem in Judea. This is what the prophet wrote about it:" 
Matthew2:5 They replied, ‘The Messiah will be born in Bethlehem in Judea. This is what the prophet wrote about it:" 
Matthew2:6 “People who live in Bethlehem, your town is a very important town in Judea. A person born in your town will become a ruler of my people, Israel. He will lead my people like a shepherd who leads his sheep.” ’" 
Matthew2:6 “People who live in Bethlehem, your town is a very important town in Judea. A person born in your town will become a ruler of my people, Israel. He will lead my people like a shepherd who leads his sheep.” ’" 
Matthew2:7 Then Herod secretly told the wise men to come to meet with him. They told him the time that the star had appeared. 
Matthew2:8 Herod sent the men to Bethlehem. He said to them, ‘Go and look everywhere for this child. When you find him, come back here and tell me where he is. Then I can go and worship him too.’" 
Matthew2:9 After the men had heard the king, they left to go to Bethlehem. They could see the same star that they had seen before. They were very happy when they saw the star. It moved along in front of them. Then it stopped above the place where the child was staying." 
Matthew2:10  
Matthew2:11 The men went into the house and they saw the child. He was with Mary, his mother. They went down on their knees in front of the child and they worshipped him. Then they opened their bags. They took out valuable gifts and they gave them to the child. The gifts were gold, incense called frankincense, and also myrrh." 
Matthew2:12 After that, God said to them in a dream, ‘Do not go back to see Herod again.’ So the men travelled on a different road to return to their own country." 
Matthew2:13 After the men had gone away, Joseph had a dream. In the dream, he saw one of the Lord God's angels. The angel said to him, ‘Herod will look for the child, so that his soldiers can kill him. You must get up and take the child and his mother with you. Go immediately to Egypt. I will tell you when you can return again. You must remain there until then.’" 
Matthew2:14 So Joseph got up and he took the child and his mother with him. They started on the journey to Egypt that night. 
Matthew2:15 They all remained in Egypt until Herod died. This happened so that the words of the prophet would become true. The Lord God had said by his prophet, ‘I have called my son to come out of Egypt.’" 
Matthew2:16 When the wise men did not return to Herod, he was very angry. He knew that they had deceived him. So he sent his men to Bethlehem. He said to them, ‘Kill all the young boys in Bethlehem. Kill the boys who live near there too. Kill all the boys who are two years old or younger than that.’ The wise men had told Herod how long ago they had first seen the special star. So he decided to kill the baby boys of that age." 
Matthew2:17 In this way, these words that God's prophet Jeremiah spoke long ago became true:" 
Matthew2:18 ‘People heard a sad noise in Ramah. Someone is weeping loudly. It is Rachel, and she is weeping for her children. Nobody can comfort her, because her children are dead.’" 
Matthew2:19 After Herod died, Joseph had a dream in Egypt. In the dream he saw one of the Lord God's angels." 
Matthew2:20 The angel said to Joseph, ‘Get up. The people who wanted to kill the child are dead. Take the child and his mother. You can now return with them to Israel.’" 
Matthew2:21 So Joseph got up. He took the child and his mother and they travelled to Israel. 
Matthew2:22 But then Joseph heard that Herod's son, Archelaus, was now king of Judea instead of his father. So Joseph was afraid to go to Judea. In another dream God showed Joseph that he should go to Galilee instead." 
Matthew2:22 But then Joseph heard that Herod's son, Archelaus, was now king of Judea instead of his father. So Joseph was afraid to go to Judea. In another dream God showed Joseph that he should go to Galilee instead." 
Matthew2:23 So Joseph went there and he lived in a town called Nazareth. Long ago God's prophets had said about God's Messiah, ‘He will be called a person from Nazareth.’ Now this had become true." 
Matthew3:1 While Jesus still lived in Nazareth, a man called John the Baptist was speaking a message from God. He was doing this in the wilderness in Judea." 
Matthew3:1 While Jesus still lived in Nazareth, a man called John the Baptist was speaking a message from God. He was doing this in the wilderness in Judea." 
Matthew3:1 While Jesus still lived in Nazareth, a man called John the Baptist was speaking a message from God. He was doing this in the wilderness in Judea." 
Matthew3:2 He told people, ‘You must turn away from your sins and change how you live. Do this now, because the kingdom of heaven has come very near.’" 
Matthew3:3 God's prophet Isaiah spoke about this man John long ago. He said: ‘Somebody's voice is shouting in the wilderness, “The Lord will come soon, so prepare a way for him. Make the paths straight for him.” ’" 
Matthew3:3 God's prophet Isaiah spoke about this man John long ago. He said: ‘Somebody's voice is shouting in the wilderness, “The Lord will come soon, so prepare a way for him. Make the paths straight for him.” ’" 
Matthew3:4 John wore clothes made from the hair of a camel. He also wore a belt made from leather. His usual food was locusts and honey from the wilderness. 
Matthew3:4 John wore clothes made from the hair of a camel. He also wore a belt made from leather. His usual food was locusts and honey from the wilderness. 
Matthew3:5 Many people went to listen to John. They lived in Jerusalem and all the other places in Judea and near the Jordan River. 
Matthew3:5 Many people went to listen to John. They lived in Jerusalem and all the other places in Judea and near the Jordan River. 
Matthew3:5 Many people went to listen to John. They lived in Jerusalem and all the other places in Judea and near the Jordan River. 
Matthew3:6 The people agreed that they had done wrong things. Then John baptized them in the Jordan River. 
Matthew3:6 The people agreed that they had done wrong things. Then John baptized them in the Jordan River. 
Matthew3:7 Many Pharisees and Sadducees came to John. They wanted John to baptize them. He said to them, ‘You are like dangerous snakes. God is angry. You are trying to run away from him. But he will soon punish people like you." 
Matthew3:7 Many Pharisees and Sadducees came to John. They wanted John to baptize them. He said to them, ‘You are like dangerous snakes. God is angry. You are trying to run away from him. But he will soon punish people like you." 
Matthew3:8 You have to show that you are sorry. Change how you live. Stop doing things that God does not like. 
Matthew3:9 Do not say to yourselves, “We are in the family of Abraham. God will surely not punish us.” Listen! God can take these stones and use them to make children for Abraham!" 
Matthew3:10 You are like trees that have bad fruit. God has an axe ready to use. He will cut down every tree that does not make good fruit. He will throw those trees into the fire. 
Matthew3:11 I baptize you with water. This shows that you want to change the way that you live. But another person will come soon. He is greater than I am. I am not good enough even to carry his shoes for him. This other person will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. 
Matthew3:12 He is like a farmer who brings the wheat home from his field. He uses a special tool to throw the wheat up in the air. He does this to make the wheat seeds separate from what remains. Then he cleans his yard. He carefully stores all the seeds to keep them safe. But he burns everything else in a great fire that nobody can stop.’ 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus went from Galilee to the Jordan River. He wanted John to baptize him. 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus went from Galilee to the Jordan River. He wanted John to baptize him. 
Matthew3:14 But John tried to stop him. He said to Jesus, ‘I should ask you to baptize me. You should not ask me to baptize you.’" 
Matthew3:14 But John tried to stop him. He said to Jesus, ‘I should ask you to baptize me. You should not ask me to baptize you.’" 
Matthew3:15 Jesus replied, ‘This time, do what I ask you to do. We must do everything correctly, as God wants it.’ So John did what Jesus asked him to do." 
Matthew3:15 Jesus replied, ‘This time, do what I ask you to do. We must do everything correctly, as God wants it.’ So John did what Jesus asked him to do." 
Matthew3:16 When John baptized him, Jesus came up out of the water. At that moment, the skies opened. Jesus saw God's Spirit coming down. He came down like a dove and he stayed on Jesus." 
Matthew3:16 When John baptized him, Jesus came up out of the water. At that moment, the skies opened. Jesus saw God's Spirit coming down. He came down like a dove and he stayed on Jesus." 
Matthew3:17 Then a voice spoke from heaven, which said, ‘This is my Son and I love him. He makes me very happy.’" 
Matthew4:1 Then the Holy Spirit led Jesus into the wilderness. While he was there, the devil came to him. He tried to cause Jesus to do wrong things." 
Matthew4:2 Jesus did not eat anything for 40 days and 40 nights. At the end of this time, he was very hungry." 
Matthew4:3 Then the devil came to Jesus and said to him, ‘If you are the Son of God, speak to these stones. Tell them to become bread.’" 
Matthew4:4 But Jesus replied, ‘No! The Bible says that food alone cannot cause people to live. They need to hear every word that God speaks. That is what gives them true life.’" 
Matthew4:5 Then the devil led Jesus to Jerusalem. He made him stand on the highest part of the temple. 
Matthew4:6 He said to Jesus, ‘If you are the Son of God, jump down from here to the ground. You know that the Bible says: “God will tell his angels to keep you safe. They will hold you safely in their hands. They will not let you hurt your foot on a stone”.’" 
Matthew4:7 Jesus replied, ‘No! The Bible also says, “Do not test the Lord your God, to see if he will save you”.’" 
Matthew4:8 Then the devil led Jesus up a very high mountain. He showed Jesus all the kingdoms in the whole world. They were very great and beautiful. 
Matthew4:9 The devil said, ‘I will give you power over all these things. Just go down on your knees in front of me. Worship me and I will give it all to you.’" 
Matthew4:10 Jesus then said to him, ‘ Satan, go away from me! The Bible says, “Only worship your Lord God. He is the only one that you should obey”.’" 
Matthew4:11 Then the devil left Jesus alone. Immediately angels came to Jesus and they took care of him. 
Matthew4:12 Then Jesus heard that Herod had put John the Baptist in prison. So Jesus returned to Galilee. 
Matthew4:12 Then Jesus heard that Herod had put John the Baptist in prison. So Jesus returned to Galilee. 
Matthew4:13 But he did not stay in Nazareth. He went to live in Capernaum, which is a town on the shore of Lake Galilee. It was in the part of Israel called Zebulun and Naphtali." 
Matthew4:14 This caused God's message to become true. Long ago God had said through his prophet Isaiah: 
Matthew4:15 ‘I am speaking to you people who live in Zebulun and Naphtali. Your land is on the way to Lake Galilee. It is across the Jordan River in Galilee, where people of other nations live." 
Matthew4:16 They are like people who are living in a dark place. They live in the shadow which death brings. Now God will send a light to shine on them.’ 
Matthew4:17 Then Jesus began to speak God's message to people. He said, ‘You must turn away from your sins and change how you live. Do this now, because the kingdom of heaven has come very near.’" 
Matthew4:18 One day, Jesus was walking along the shore of Lake Galilee. He saw two men who were brothers. One man was called Simon, and he was also called Peter. His brother's name was Andrew. Their job was to catch fish. They were throwing their nets into the lake to catch fish." 
Matthew4:19 Jesus said to them, ‘Come with me and be my disciples. Then I will teach you how to catch people, instead of fish.’" 
Matthew4:20 Simon and Andrew immediately put their nets down and they went with Jesus. 
Matthew4:21 They continued to walk along the shore. Soon Jesus saw two other men who were brothers. They were called James and John. They were in their boat with their father, Zebedee. They were mending their nets. Jesus said to James and John, ‘Come with me.’" 
Matthew4:21 They continued to walk along the shore. Soon Jesus saw two other men who were brothers. They were called James and John. They were in their boat with their father, Zebedee. They were mending their nets. Jesus said to James and John, ‘Come with me.’" 
Matthew4:21 They continued to walk along the shore. Soon Jesus saw two other men who were brothers. They were called James and John. They were in their boat with their father, Zebedee. They were mending their nets. Jesus said to James and John, ‘Come with me.’" 
Matthew4:22 The brothers immediately left the boat and their father. They went with Jesus to be his disciples. 
Matthew4:23 Jesus travelled everywhere in Galilee. He taught the people in the Jewish meeting places. He told them the good news about God's kingdom. He also caused sick people to become well again from all their different pains and illnesses. 
Matthew4:24 More and more people in all parts of Syria heard about Jesus. So they brought all the sick people to see him. These people had many different illnesses, and some of them had strong pains. Bad spirits were living inside some of them. Some people could not control their bodies, and some people could not walk properly. Jesus caused all these people to become well again." 
Matthew4:25 Because of this, large crowds of people followed him. They came from Galilee and from the region called ‘The ten cities’. Some of them came from Jerusalem, and other parts of Judea. And some came from the other side of the Jordan River." 
Matthew4:25 Because of this, large crowds of people followed him. They came from Galilee and from the region called ‘The ten cities’. Some of them came from Jerusalem, and other parts of Judea. And some came from the other side of the Jordan River." 
Matthew5:1 Jesus saw that crowds of people were following him. So he went up a hill and he sat down there to teach them. His disciples came near to listen to him. 
Matthew5:2 He began to teach them. This is what he said: 
Matthew5:3 ‘Happy are the people who know that they need God very much. The kingdom of heaven belongs to people like that. 
Matthew5:4 Happy are the people who are sad now. God will come near to help them. 
Matthew5:5 Happy are the people who are kind. The whole earth will belong to them. 
Matthew5:6 Happy are the people who want to obey God, as much as they need to eat food. God will give them everything that they need." 
Matthew5:7 Happy are the people who are kind and who forgive other people. God will forgive people like that. 
Matthew5:8 Happy are the people who have pure thoughts. They will come near to God and see him. 
Matthew5:9 Happy are the people who help people to live in peace. God will call them his children. 
Matthew5:10 Happy are the people who do what is right but other people hurt them because of it. The kingdom of heaven belongs to people like that. 
Matthew5:11 Yes, happy are you when people insult you because you believe in me. Or they may hurt you. Or they may say things about you that are not true." 
Matthew5:12 God is preparing many good things for you in heaven. So you should be very happy when people do these bad things to any of you. People did these same bad things to God's prophets who lived long ago.’ 
Matthew5:13 Jesus said, ‘You are like salt for all people. Salt is good. But if it is not salty any more, you cannot make it salty again. People can no longer use it for anything. They just throw it away and they walk on it." 
Matthew5:14 You are like a light for everybody in this world. If people build a city on a hill, then other people can see it easily." 
Matthew5:15 Nobody lights a lamp and then puts it under a pot. He will put the lamp in a high place. Everybody who is in the house can then see the light from the lamp. 
Matthew5:16 You must be sure that your light shines well. Then you will give light to other people. They will see all the good things that you do. Then they will praise God, who is your Father in heaven.’" 
Matthew5:17 Jesus said, ‘You should not think that I have come to destroy God's Law. Also, I have not come to destroy the messages that God's prophets spoke. No, I have not come to destroy their words. I have come to make what they taught become true." 
Matthew5:18 I tell you this. One day, even the earth and the sky will finish. But while they remain, God's Law will also remain. Nobody can remove even the smallest thing from it. The Law will remain until everything in it has happened." 
Matthew5:19 A person may choose not to obey a rule in God's Law. He may think it is the least important rule. He may also teach other people to think like that. Then God will call him the least important person in the kingdom of heaven. But a person may choose to obey all the rules in God's Law. And he may teach other people to obey them too. God will call that person great in the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew5:20 I tell you this. You must always do what is right. You must live in a way that is better than the teachers of God's Law and the Pharisees. You will never come into the kingdom of heaven if you do not do better than them.’ 
Matthew5:21 Jesus then said, ‘You know the commands that God gave to your ancestors: “You must not murder anyone. Anyone who does murder will stand in front of a judge. The judge will punish him because he has done a wrong thing.”" 
Matthew5:22 But what I now say to you is this. Anybody who is angry with his brother will have to stand in front of a judge. If someone calls his brother by a bad name, he will have to stand in front of the Jewish leaders. They will judge him. But if someone says to his brother, “You are a useless fool,” that person deserves punishment in the fires of hell." 
Matthew5:23 Maybe you go to the temple to give your gift to God. You take it to the altar. But then you remember that your brother is angry with you. 
Matthew5:24 You must leave your gift there in front of God's altar. First you must go and find your brother. Tell him that you are sorry. Then you can both become friends with each other again. After that, you can return to the altar and give your gift to God." 
Matthew5:25 Also, somebody may say that you have done something wrong against him. He may take you to stand in front of the judge. You should quickly try to agree with this person. Decide with him how to make things right again. Do this even while you are going with him to the judge. If you do not do that, the judge may agree that you have done a wrong thing. Then he will give you to his officer. His officer will put you in prison." 
Matthew5:26 I tell you this. You will remain in prison until you have paid all the money, even the last small coin.’" 
Matthew5:27 Jesus then said, ‘You know what God's command says: “You must not have sex with anyone who is not your husband or your wife.”" 
Matthew5:28 But what I tell you is this: A man may look at a woman who is not his wife. And he may want to have sex with her. In his thoughts he has had sex with her, so he has done a wrong thing." 
Matthew5:29 If your right eye causes you to do wrong things, then you should take it out. You should throw it away. Yes, you will lose one eye. But it will be much worse if you keep your whole body and God throws you into hell." 
Matthew5:30 Also, if your right hand causes you to do wrong things, then you should cut it off. You should throw it away. You will lose one hand. But it will be much worse if you keep your body in one piece and go to hell.’" 
Matthew5:31 ‘ God's Law also says: “Any man who wants to send his wife away must give her a letter. This letter must say that they are no longer married.” 
Matthew5:32 But what I tell you is this: A man must not send his wife away except for one reason. He may only send her away if she has had sex with another man. If he sends her away for any other reason, he has done a wrong thing. He has caused her to have sex with another man, who is not her husband. Also, if a woman has left her husband, another man must not marry her. That is the same as if he had sex with another man's wife.’" 
Matthew5:33 ‘You also know the rule that God gave to your ancestors: “If you make a promise to the Lord God, you must do what you have said.”" 
Matthew5:34 But what I tell you is this. Do not use any name to make a promise stronger. Do not use the words “by heaven ” to make a promise stronger. Heaven is the throne where God sits to rule. Do not use the words “by the earth” to make a promise stronger. The earth is the place where God rests his feet. 
Matthew5:35 Do not use the words “by Jerusalem” to make a promise stronger. Jerusalem is God's city. He is the great King who rules from there. 
Matthew5:36 Do not use the words “by my head” to make a promise. You cannot make the colour of even one of your hairs black or white. 
Matthew5:37 Instead, when you make a promise, you should say only “Yes, I will do it.” Or you should say only “No, I will not do it.” If you say anything more than this, it comes from Satan.’" 
Matthew5:38 Jesus then said, ‘You also know that God's Law says: “If somebody destroys your eye, then you should destroy that person's eye. If somebody destroys your tooth, then you should destroy that person's tooth.”" 
Matthew5:39 But what I tell you is this. If somebody does something bad to you, do not do anything against him. Somebody may hit you on one side of your face. Then you should also let him hit the other side of your face." 
Matthew5:40 Maybe somebody wants to take you to the judge. He says that you should give him your shirt. Give the man your shirt, and give him your coat too." 
Matthew5:41 Or a soldier may tell you, “Carry my luggage for one kilometre.” You should do that. Even agree to carry it for two kilometres." 
Matthew5:42 When people ask you for something, you should give it to them. If they ask you to lend them something, then you should not refuse." 
Matthew5:43 You have heard people say, “Love the people who are your friends. But hate those people who want to hurt you.”" 
Matthew5:44 What I tell you is this: You should love the people who want to hurt you. If people cause you to have trouble, pray that God would help them." 
Matthew5:45 If you live like this, you will show that you really are children of your Father above. God is kind to everyone. He causes the sun to shine on everyone, both good people and bad people. He also causes the rain to fall on everyone, people who obey him and people who do not obey him." 
Matthew5:46 Do you only love people who love you? God will not give you good things just for doing that. Even the men who take taxes love their friends! 
Matthew5:47 If you are only kind to your friends, then you are not doing anything special. Even people who do not believe in God do that." 
Matthew5:48 So you must be good in every way, as your Father above is good in every way.’" 
Matthew6:1 Jesus then said to them, ‘You should do good things to help people. But be careful! Do not do this so that other people see you. If you want other people to praise you, your Father in heaven will not praise you." 
Matthew6:2 When you give something to a poor person, do not tell anyone about it. The hypocrites do this in their meeting places. They also do it in the busy streets of the town. They do this so that other people will praise them. I tell you this. They have already received their gift. God will not give them anything more." 
Matthew6:3 So when you give something to a poor person, keep it a secret from other people. Do not tell anyone. Your left hand will not even know what your right hand does!" 
Matthew6:4 Nobody else will know about the good thing that you have done. But God sees the things that you do secretly. In return, he will give you good things.’" 
Matthew6:5 ‘Also, you must not pray in the way that the hypocrites pray. They like to stand and pray in their meeting places. They like to do it on the corners of the busy streets. Then many people will see them and they will praise them. I tell you this. They have already received their gift from people. God will not give them anything more." 
Matthew6:6 But this is how you should pray. Go to a place in your house where you can be alone. You can shut the door and you can pray to God your Father. He is in that secret place. He sees what you do there. In return, he will give you good things." 
Matthew6:7 When you pray, do not say the same words many times. People who do not believe in God do that. They use many words that mean nothing. They think that when they pray like that, their gods will hear them." 
Matthew6:8 Do not pray like they do. God your Father already knows what you need. He knows this even before you ask him. 
Matthew6:9 So this is how you should pray: “God, our Father who is in heaven, we want people to give honour to you." 
Matthew6:10 We want the day when you rule everyone to come soon. We want everyone to obey you on earth, as everyone in heaven obeys you." 
Matthew6:11 Please give us the food that we need today. 
Matthew6:12 We have forgiven people who have done wrong things to us. In the same way, please forgive us for the wrong things that we have done." 
Matthew6:13 Do not let us agree to do wrong things. Keep us safe from Satan, the evil one.” ’" 
Matthew6:14 Then Jesus said, ‘When other people do wrong things against you, you must forgive them. Then God, your Father in heaven, will also forgive you for the wrong things that you have done." 
Matthew6:15 But if you do not forgive other people, then your Father will not forgive you.’" 
Matthew6:16 Jesus then said, ‘You may decide to fast for some time. But do not look sad so that people know you are doing a special thing. Hypocrites want people to see how good they are. They make their faces dirty. Then other people can see that they are fasting. I tell you this: people have praised them and that is the only gift that they will get." 
Matthew6:17 But when you fast for some time, you should wash your face. Make your hair look nice." 
Matthew6:18 Then other people will not know that you are doing a special thing. But God, your Father, will know. You do not see him but he sees what you do secretly. In return, he will give you good things." 
Matthew6:19 Do not want to have many valuable things here in the world. Insects or water can destroy those kinds of things. Or people may come into your house and they can rob you of those things. 
Matthew6:20 Instead, you should want to have valuable things in heaven. Insects and water cannot destroy anything there. Men cannot rob you of your things there." 
Matthew6:21 Then you will be thinking a lot about heaven, because that is where you keep your valuable things." 
Matthew6:22 Your eyes are like lamps and your body is like a room. Make sure that your eyes are like a clean lamp, then your whole body will have light." 
Matthew6:23 If your eyes are not good, then your whole body will be in the dark. If the light in you has become dark, you will be living in a very dark place.’" 
Matthew6:24 Jesus said, ‘Nobody can work as a slave for two masters at the same time. Maybe he will hate one of the masters, but he will love the other one. Or he will work well for one master, but he will think bad things about the other master. God and money are like different masters. You cannot work for both of them." 
Matthew6:25 So I tell you this. You should not worry about how to stay alive. Do not worry about the food and drink that you need. Do not worry about the clothes that you need to wear. Your life is more important than the food that you eat. Your body is more important than your clothes. 
Matthew6:26 Think about the wild birds. They do not plant seeds in the ground. They do not cut down plants to eat. They have no buildings to store food. But God, your Father in heaven, gives them food to eat. You are much more valuable than the birds." 
Matthew6:27 Even if you always worry about your life, you cannot make it as much as one hour longer!" 
Matthew6:28 You should not worry about your clothes. Think about how the wild flowers grow. They do not work or make clothes for themselves. 
Matthew6:29 But I tell you this. Even one wild flower is more beautiful than King Solomon was. And King Solomon wore the most beautiful clothes. 
Matthew6:30 It is God that gives beautiful clothes even to the grass. One day the grass is growing in the field, but the next day people will cut it and burn it. God will certainly take care of you, much more than he takes care of the grass. You should trust him more than you do!" 
Matthew6:31 So do not worry about these things. Do not always say, “What will we eat?”, or “What will we drink?”, or “What will we wear?”" 
Matthew6:32 People who do not know God are always trying to get these things. But as for you, your Father in heaven knows that you need them." 
Matthew6:33 Instead, always think about the things that are important in the kingdom of heaven. Always do what God shows you is right. Then he will also give you the things that you need each day." 
Matthew6:34 So do not worry about what might happen tomorrow. Tomorrow will have its own problems. It is enough for you to be thinking each day about the problems of that day.’ 
Matthew7:1 Jesus then said, ‘Do not judge anyone, to say that they are a bad person. If you do that, God will judge you in the same way." 
Matthew7:2 God will think about you in the same way that you think about other people. He will use the same rules for you as you use for other people. 
Matthew7:3 Perhaps you want to tell your friend about his little mistake. If you want to do that, first remember your own bigger mistakes." 
Matthew7:4 You are like a person who has a big piece of wood in his eye. But then he says to his friend, “Let me take that little piece of dirt out of your eye for you.”" 
Matthew7:5 Do not be like that person. You think that you are better than your friend. But you are not. First, you must take the big piece of wood out of your own eye. After that, your eyes will see clearly. Then you can take the small piece of dirt out of your friend's eye." 
Matthew7:6 Do not give holy things that are for God to dogs. The dogs will turn round and attack you. Do not throw valuable things to pigs. The pigs will only stand on them and bury them in the dirt.’ 
Matthew7:7 Jesus said, ‘Go on asking God for what you need. Then God will give it to you. Go on looking for what you need. Then you will find it. Go on knocking at the door, and God will open it for you." 
Matthew7:8 Everyone who asks for something will receive it. Everyone who looks for something will find it. God will open the door for everyone who knocks on it. 
Matthew7:9 Some of you are fathers. If your son asks you for some bread, you would not give him a stone." 
Matthew7:10 If he asks you for a fish, you would not give him a snake." 
Matthew7:11 You may be bad, but even you know how to give good things to your children. Your Father in heaven knows much better than you do how to give good things to his children. He will give good things to everyone who asks him." 
Matthew7:12 So do the good things for other people that you would want them to do for you. That is true in everything you do. That is what God's Law and the messages of God's prophets teach us.’ 
Matthew7:13 ‘Go in through the narrow gate to get true life with God. There is a wide gate that is easy to go through. The wide path is easy to travel on. Many people find that wide gate, but it is the way that goes to God's final punishment." 
Matthew7:14 It is difficult to go through the small gate. And it is difficult to walk on the narrow road. But when you do go that way, you will get true life. Not many people find that narrow gate.’" 
Matthew7:15 ‘Some people say that they are prophets from God. But their words are false. They seem to be like sheep that are not dangerous. But they are really like hungry wild dogs. What they teach will hurt you. 
Matthew7:16 You will know these people by the way that they live. The things that they do are like their fruit. Grapes do not grow on thorn bushes. Figs do not grow on weeds. 
Matthew7:17 Good fruit grows on a tree that is good. Bad fruit grows on a tree that is not good. 
Matthew7:18 A good tree cannot make bad fruit. A bad tree cannot make good fruit. 
Matthew7:19 A farmer will cut down any tree that does not make good fruit. He will burn it on a fire. 
Matthew7:20 In the same way, look at the way people live. Then you will know what they are really like." 
Matthew7:21 Some people say to me, “Master, Master!” But not all of them will come into the kingdom of heaven. Only the people who obey God, my Father in heaven, will come in. They do what he wants them to do." 
Matthew7:22 On the day when God judges people, many of them will say, “Master, Master! We used your authority and we spoke a message from you. We used your authority and we sent bad spirits out of people. We used your authority to do many powerful things.”" 
Matthew7:23 But I will say to these people, “I never knew you. You are wicked people who do not obey God. So go away from me.” ’" 
Matthew7:24 Jesus then said, ‘Some people listen to my message and they obey it. Those people are like a wise man who built his house on rock." 
Matthew7:25 Then a storm came with a lot of rain and wind. The rivers rose up high. Strong winds blew hard against that house. But the house did not fall down because the man had built it on rock. 
Matthew7:26 Other people listen to my message but they do not obey it. Those people are like a fool who built his house on sand. 
Matthew7:27 Then a storm came with a lot of rain and wind. The rivers rose up high. Strong winds blew hard against the house. That house fell down. The storm destroyed it completely.’ 
Matthew7:28 Jesus finished speaking. The crowds of people were very surprised at the things that he taught them. 
Matthew7:29 When Jesus taught them, he showed that he had authority. That was not like the way that the teachers of God's Law taught people." 
Matthew8:1 Jesus came down from the hill and a large crowd followed him. 
Matthew8:2 A man with a bad skin disease came to meet him. He went down on his knees in front of Jesus and he said, ‘Sir, if you want, you can make me well again. Please do it.’" 
Matthew8:3 Jesus put out his hand towards the man and touched him. He said, ‘I do want to help you. Be clean again.’ Immediately, the man's skin was clean again." 
Matthew8:4 Then Jesus said to the man, ‘Listen. You must not tell anyone about this. Instead, go and show yourself to the priest. Give the offering that Moses taught people to give after this kind of disease. This will show everyone that you are now well again.’" 
Matthew8:5 Jesus went into Capernaum. An officer in the Roman army came to meet him. He asked Jesus to help him. 
Matthew8:6 He said, ‘Sir, my servant is lying in bed at home. He cannot move his legs and he has a lot of pain.’" 
Matthew8:7 Jesus said to the officer, ‘I will go with you to your house and I will make your servant well again.’" 
Matthew8:8 But the officer answered, ‘Sir, I am not good enough for you to come into my house. Instead, speak your command. I know that my servant will then be well again." 
Matthew8:9 In my work, someone has authority over me. I also have authority over other soldiers. I say to one soldier, “Go!” and he goes. I say to another one, “Come!” and he comes. I say to my servant, “Do this!” and he does it.’" 
Matthew8:10 Jesus heard what the officer said. He was very surprised. He spoke to the crowd that was following him. ‘I tell you this. I have never found anyone like this man in all of Israel. Nobody else believes in me as well as he does. 
Matthew8:11 I tell you, many people will come from all over the world to take their place in the kingdom of heaven. There they will sit down to eat with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Matthew8:12 But other people who think that God's kingdom belongs to them will not be there. God's angels will throw them into the dark places that are far away from God. There those people will weep very much. They will bite their teeth together.’ 
Matthew8:13 Then Jesus said to the officer, ‘Go home. You believed that I would make your servant well again. So I will do it for you.’ At that moment, the officer's servant did become well again." 
Matthew8:14 Jesus went into Peter's house. There, he saw the mother of Peter's wife. She was lying in bed. She was ill and her body was very hot." 
Matthew8:15 Jesus touched her hand and immediately she was well again. So she got up and she prepared food for Jesus. 
Matthew8:16 That evening, people brought to Jesus many people who were ill. Many of them had bad spirits in them. Jesus spoke a word so that the bad spirits left them. He made everybody who was ill well again." 
Matthew8:17 Jesus did this so that the words of the prophet Isaiah would become true: ‘He took away everything that makes us weak. He carried away our diseases.’ 
Matthew8:18 One day, Jesus saw a large crowd of people around him. So he told his disciples, ‘We should go across the lake to the other side.’" 
Matthew8:19 A teacher of God's Law came to Jesus and said to him, ‘Teacher, I will go with you everywhere that you go.’" 
Matthew8:20 Jesus replied, ‘Wild animals and birds have their own places to live. But I, the Son of Man, have no place of my own to lie down and rest.’" 
Matthew8:21 Another man who was one of Jesus' disciples said to him, ‘Sir, I want to come with you. But first, let me go home and bury my father. Then I will come with you.’" 
Matthew8:22 Jesus said to him, ‘No! You must come with me now. Let those people who are dead themselves bury their own dead people.’" 
Matthew8:23 Then Jesus got into a boat. His disciples also went with him. 
Matthew8:24 Immediately a great storm began to blow across the lake. Water began to go into the boat and fill it. Jesus was sleeping. 
Matthew8:25 The disciples went to him and they woke him. They said, ‘ Lord, save us! We will die here in the water!’" 
Matthew8:26 Jesus said to them, ‘You should not be so afraid. You should trust me more than you do!’ Then he stood up and he spoke strongly to the wind and the water. He said, ‘Stop!’ Then the wind and the water became quiet again." 
Matthew8:27 The disciples were very surprised. They asked each other, ‘What kind of man is this? Even the wind and the water obey him!’" 
Matthew8:28 Jesus arrived at the other side of Lake Galilee. He came to a place where the Gadarene people lived. Two men who had bad spirits in them came to meet him. These men lived outside, among some graves. They were very strong and dangerous. People were too afraid to walk that way because of them." 
Matthew8:29 When the two men saw Jesus, they immediately shouted at him, ‘You are the Son of God! What are you doing here? Have you come to punish us before the right time comes?’" 
Matthew8:30 A large group of pigs was eating there, not very far away." 
Matthew8:31 The bad spirits said to Jesus, ‘If you make us leave these men, please send us to those pigs. Let us go into them.’" 
Matthew8:32 Jesus said to the bad spirits, ‘Go!’ So the bad spirits came out of the men and they went into the pigs. All the pigs rushed together down the hill into the lake. They all died there in the water." 
Matthew8:33 When this happened, the men who took care of the pigs ran away. They went into the town. They told people there everything that had happened to the men with the bad spirits in them." 
Matthew8:34 So everybody came out of the town to meet Jesus. When they saw him, they said, ‘Please go away. Leave our part of the country.’" 
Matthew9:1 Then Jesus got back into the boat. He sailed across to the other side of the lake again. He went to Capernaum, the town where he was living." 
Matthew9:2 Some men came to see Jesus there. They carried with them a man who could not move his legs. He was lying on a mat. Jesus knew that they believed in him. He said to the man who could not walk, ‘Do not be afraid, my friend. I forgive you for the wrong things that you have done.’" 
Matthew9:3 Then some teachers of God's Law said to themselves: ‘This man is speaking as if he is God. That is not right.’ 
Matthew9:4 Jesus knew what the teachers were thinking. So he said to them, ‘You should not think these bad things in your minds." 
Matthew9:5 I said to this man, “I forgive you for the wrong things that you have done.” Instead, I could have said to him, “Stand up and walk.” Which one is easier for me to say?" 
Matthew9:6 But I want you to know this: I, the Son of Man, have authority on earth. I can forgive people for the wrong things that they have done.’ Then Jesus said to the man who could not walk, ‘Stand up. Pick up your mat and go home.’" 
Matthew9:7 The man stood up and he went home. 
Matthew9:8 The crowds of people saw what had happened. They were very surprised and afraid. They saw that God had given so much authority to a man. So they praised God and they said, ‘God is great!’" 
Matthew9:9 Jesus went away from that place. While he walked, he saw a man called Matthew. Matthew's job was to take taxes from people. He was sitting in his office. Jesus said to him, ‘Come with me and be my disciple.’ So Matthew stood up and he went with Jesus." 
Matthew9:10 Later, Jesus went to eat a meal in Matthew's house. Many bad people and men who took taxes also came to the house. They came to eat there with Jesus and his disciples." 
Matthew9:11 Some Pharisees saw what was happening. They said to Jesus' disciples, ‘Your teacher is eating a meal with these bad people. That is not right. They are people who do not obey God, and some of them take taxes from people.’" 
Matthew9:12 Jesus heard what the Pharisees were saying. He said to them, ‘People who are well do not need a doctor. It is people who are ill that need a doctor." 
Matthew9:13 Go and study what it says in the Bible. God says there, “I want people to be kind to each other. I do not want them only to offer sacrifices to me.” Some people think that they always obey God. I did not come to help people like that. But some people know that they have done wrong things. I am asking those people to come to me for help.’" 
Matthew9:14 Then the disciples of John the Baptist came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘We often decide to fast for a time. The disciples of the Pharisees also do that. Why do your disciples never do that?’" 
Matthew9:14 Then the disciples of John the Baptist came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘We often decide to fast for a time. The disciples of the Pharisees also do that. Why do your disciples never do that?’" 
Matthew9:15 Jesus answered them: ‘When a man marries, his friends cannot be sad. They cannot refuse to eat food while he is with them. But there will be a time when people will take the man away from his friends. At that time his friends will choose to fast.’" 
Matthew9:16 Then Jesus said, ‘Nobody uses a piece of new cloth to mend an old coat. If he does, the new cloth will cause the old cloth to tear again. It will make a bigger hole than before." 
Matthew9:17 Nobody pours new wine into old wineskins. If he does that, the new wine will tear the old wineskins. He will lose the wine and the wineskins will be useless. Instead, you must put new wine into new wineskins. Then there will be nothing to spoil the wine or the wineskins.’" 
Matthew9:18 While Jesus was saying these things to the people, a leader at the Jewish meeting place came to him. The man went down on his knees in front of Jesus and said to him, ‘My daughter has just died. Come to my house. Put your hand on her and then she will live again.’" 
Matthew9:19 So Jesus went with the man. His disciples also went with them. 
Matthew9:20 There was a sick woman in the crowd. She had been losing blood for 12 years. She came near to Jesus, behind him. She touched the edge of his coat." 
Matthew9:21 The woman thought, ‘Even if I only touch his coat, I will become well again.’" 
Matthew9:22 Jesus turned around and he saw the woman. He said to her, ‘Young woman, do not be afraid. You are now well again because you believed in me.’ Immediately the woman became well again." 
Matthew9:23 Then Jesus arrived at the Jewish leader's house. Some people there were making funeral music and the crowd was making a loud noise. 
Matthew9:24 When Jesus saw this, he said to everybody in the house, ‘Go outside. This girl is not dead. She is only sleeping.’ The people laughed at Jesus when he said that." 
Matthew9:25 The family sent all the people out of the house. Jesus went inside and he held the girl's hand. Immediately she stood up. 
Matthew9:26 People in all that part of the country heard about what had happened. 
Matthew9:27 Jesus left the house. While he walked along, two blind men began to follow him. They were shouting out to him, ‘ Son of David! Please be kind to us and help us!’" 
Matthew9:28 Jesus went into a house and the blind men came to him there. Jesus asked them, ‘Do you believe that I can make your eyes become well?’ The men replied, ‘Yes, Master, we believe that you can do this.’" 
Matthew9:29 So Jesus touched the men's eyes. He said to them, ‘Because you believed in me, you will now see again.’" 
Matthew9:30 Then immediately the men could see again. Jesus said strongly to them, ‘You must not tell anyone about this.’" 
Matthew9:31 So the men went away. But they told everybody in that part of the country all about what Jesus had done for them. 
Matthew9:32 While those two men were leaving, some people brought another man to Jesus. This man could not speak because of a bad spirit in him." 
Matthew9:33 Jesus made the bad spirit go out of the man and leave him. Then the man began to speak again. Everybody there was very surprised. They said, ‘Nobody has seen anything like this happen in Israel before.’" 
Matthew9:34 But the Pharisees said, ‘This man can send demons out of people because Satan, the ruler of demons, gives him authority.’" 
Matthew9:35 Jesus went to visit all the towns and villages near there. He taught the people in the Jewish meeting places. He told them the good news about God's kingdom. He also caused sick people to become well again from all their different pains and illnesses. 
Matthew9:36 When Jesus saw the crowds of people, he felt sorry for them. They had trouble in their minds. They had nobody to help them. Jesus thought, ‘These people are like sheep that have no shepherd to take care of them.’" 
Matthew9:37 Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Many people are ready to believe God's message. They are like crops in the fields at harvest time. But there are very few workers to bring in the crops." 
Matthew9:38 So pray to God to send out workers. The field and the crops belong to him.’ 
Matthew10:1 One day, Jesus asked his 12 disciples to come to him. He gave them authority over bad spirits so that they could send the spirits out of people. They could also make sick people well again from every kind of illness." 
Matthew10:2 These are the names of the 12 apostles: The first apostle is Simon, who was also called Peter. Then Simon's brother, who was called Andrew. Also James and his brother John, who were Zebedee's sons." 
Matthew10:2 These are the names of the 12 apostles: The first apostle is Simon, who was also called Peter. Then Simon's brother, who was called Andrew. Also James and his brother John, who were Zebedee's sons." 
Matthew10:2 These are the names of the 12 apostles: The first apostle is Simon, who was also called Peter. Then Simon's brother, who was called Andrew. Also James and his brother John, who were Zebedee's sons." 
Matthew10:3 There were Philip and Bartholomew. There were Thomas and Matthew. (Matthew's job was to take taxes from people.) And James who was the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus." 
Matthew10:3 There were Philip and Bartholomew. There were Thomas and Matthew. (Matthew's job was to take taxes from people.) And James who was the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus." 
Matthew10:4 There was also Simon the Zealot and Judas Iscariot, who later gave Jesus to his enemies." 
Matthew10:5 Jesus sent out these 12 disciples. Before they left, he said to them, ‘Do not go to any place where the people are Gentiles. And do not go to towns where only Samaritan people live." 
Matthew10:6 Instead, you must go to the people of Israel. They are like lost sheep with nobody to take care of them." 
Matthew10:7 While you travel, you must tell people about the kingdom of heaven. You must tell them that it has now become near." 
Matthew10:8 Make sick people well again. Cause dead people to become alive again. If people have a bad skin disease, make them well again. Send bad spirits out of people to leave them. God has been very kind to you, so you should be kind to other people. When you help people, do not ask them for money." 
Matthew10:9 Do not take any money in your purses. 
Matthew10:10 Do not take a bag with you, or extra clothes. Do not take extra shoes or a stick. You are working to help people. So people should give you what you need to live." 
Matthew10:11 When you arrive in a town or a village, look for a good person there. Continue to stay in that person's house until you leave there." 
Matthew10:12 When you go into the house, ask God to bless the people there with peace." 
Matthew10:13 If the people of that house deserve God's blessing, then they will have peace. But if they do not deserve it, God will bless you with peace instead of them." 
Matthew10:14 Sometimes you will go to some house or town and the people will not accept you there. They will not listen to your message. Then you should leave. Clean the dirt of that place off your feet. 
Matthew10:15 I tell you this. One day God will punish people like that. God will punish them even more than the people who lived in Sodom and Gomorrah long ago.’ 
Matthew10:16 Jesus then said to his disciples, ‘Listen! I am sending you to people who will want to kill you. You will be like sheep among wild animals. You must watch carefully, as snakes do. But you must also be good and kind like doves." 
Matthew10:17 Be careful! People will be against you. They will take you to stand in front of their leaders. They will punish you with whips in their meeting places. 
Matthew10:18 They will take you to stand in front of kings and rulers. All this will happen because you are my disciples. You will tell all these important people and also the Gentiles the good news about me. 
Matthew10:19 When they take you to stand in front of their leaders, do not be afraid. Do not worry about what you should say or how you should say it. At that time, God will give you the right words to speak." 
Matthew10:20 You will not be speaking your own words. The Spirit of your Father God will give you his own words to say. 
Matthew10:21 At that time, a man will let people kill his own brother. A father will let people kill his own child. Children will be against their parents. They will even ask people to kill their parents." 
Matthew10:22 All people will hate you because you are my disciples. But God will save the person who remains strong until the end. 
Matthew10:23 If people in any town hurt you because of me, you should leave that town immediately. Go to another town. I tell you this. You will not have enough time to speak your message in all the towns of Israel. I, the Son of Man, will return before that can happen." 
Matthew10:24 A student is not more important than his teacher is. A servant is not more important than his master is. 
Matthew10:25 A student should be happy if he becomes like his teacher. A servant should be happy if he becomes like his master. People have called me, the master of the house, Beelzebul. You are like those people who live in my house. So do not be surprised when people call you even worse names than they call me." 
Matthew10:26 So do not be afraid of these people. They hide the things that they do. But there will be a time when other people will see those things. Everyone will know all their secrets. 
Matthew10:27 I tell you things secretly, like people do in the dark. But you must tell people these things clearly in the light of day. I have said things very quietly into your ears. But now you must shout those things loudly from the tops of the houses." 
Matthew10:28 Do not be afraid of those people who can kill only your body. These people cannot kill your soul. No, it is God that you should be afraid of. He can kill your body, and then he can also destroy your soul in hell." 
Matthew10:29 Think about this. People sell two birds for just one small coin. But God takes care of these little birds. Not one of them can fall to the ground unless God allows it to happen. 
Matthew10:30 God even knows how many hairs there are on your head. 
Matthew10:31 So do not be afraid of those people who are against you. You are more valuable to God than many little birds. 
Matthew10:32 You should say clearly to other people, “I belong to Jesus.” If you do that, I will say to my Father in heaven, “This is someone who is my disciple.”" 
Matthew10:33 But if you say to other people, “I do not believe in Jesus,” I will then say to my Father in heaven, “I do not know that person. He is not one of my disciples.”" 
Matthew10:34 I will tell you why I have come into the world. I did not come so that everyone would agree with each other. No, I came to put people against one another, to fight against each other." 
Matthew10:35 A man will fight against his father. A daughter will fight against her mother. A woman will fight against her husband's mother. 
Matthew10:36 A man's own family will fight against him. 
Matthew10:37 Nobody should love his own father and mother more than he loves me. If he does, he cannot be my disciple. Nobody should love his own son or daughter more than he loves me. If he does, then he cannot be my disciple." 
Matthew10:38 If you really want to be one of my disciples, you must be ready to die for me. Live like a person who carries his own cross to go and die." 
Matthew10:39 Whoever wants to keep his life safe will lose it. But whoever agrees to lose his life because of me will have true life.’ 
Matthew10:40 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘If anyone accepts you in his home, then he is also accepting me. And anyone who accepts me, also accepts my Father God, who sent me." 
Matthew10:41 Somebody may accept a prophet into his home because the visitor is a prophet of God. God will bless that person as he blesses a prophet. Or somebody may accept a good man who obeys God, because the man is good. God will bless that person as he blesses the good man." 
Matthew10:42 People may think that my disciples are unimportant. But God will bless anyone who gives even a drink of cold water to one of them. I tell you, that person will never lose God's help.’" 
Matthew11:1 Jesus taught all these things to his 12 disciples. After he had finished, he went away from that place. He went to the towns near there to teach his message to people." 
Matthew11:2 At that time, John the Baptist was in prison. But people told him about all the things that Jesus the Messiah was doing. So John sent some of his own disciples to ask Jesus some questions." 
Matthew11:2 At that time, John the Baptist was in prison. But people told him about all the things that Jesus the Messiah was doing. So John sent some of his own disciples to ask Jesus some questions." 
Matthew11:3 They said to him, ‘John wants to know this: Are you the special person that God has promised to send to us? If not, should we look for someone else?’" 
Matthew11:3 They said to him, ‘John wants to know this: Are you the special person that God has promised to send to us? If not, should we look for someone else?’" 
Matthew11:4 Jesus replied, ‘Go back to John. Tell him what you have been hearing. Also, tell him what you have been seeing." 
Matthew11:4 Jesus replied, ‘Go back to John. Tell him what you have been hearing. Also, tell him what you have been seeing." 
Matthew11:5 Blind people can now see again. People who could not walk can now walk again. People who had a bad skin disease are now well again. Deaf people can now hear again. People who had died now live again. Poor people are hearing God's good news. 
Matthew11:6 If anyone believes in me and he does not turn away, he will be truly happy.’" 
Matthew11:7 John's disciples went away again. Jesus spoke to the crowd about John. He said to them, ‘You went out to the wilderness. What did you go there to see? Was it a tall piece of grass which the wind was blowing this way and that? No, you did not go to see that." 
Matthew11:7 John's disciples went away again. Jesus spoke to the crowd about John. He said to them, ‘You went out to the wilderness. What did you go there to see? Was it a tall piece of grass which the wind was blowing this way and that? No, you did not go to see that." 
Matthew11:8 Did you go to see a man who was wearing expensive clothes? No! People like that do not live in the wilderness. They live in kings' great houses. 
Matthew11:9 So what did you go to see? Did you go to see a prophet? Yes! But I tell you, John was even more important than a prophet." 
Matthew11:9 So what did you go to see? Did you go to see a prophet? Yes! But I tell you, John was even more important than a prophet." 
Matthew11:10 This is what someone wrote about him a long time ago in the Bible. God said: “Listen! I will send someone to go in front of you. He will speak my message. He will prepare a way for you.” ’ 
Matthew11:11 Jesus then said, ‘I tell you this. John the Baptist is greater than any person who has ever lived until now. But now, anyone who belongs in the kingdom of heaven is greater than John. Even the least important of them is greater than he is." 
Matthew11:11 Jesus then said, ‘I tell you this. John the Baptist is greater than any person who has ever lived until now. But now, anyone who belongs in the kingdom of heaven is greater than John. Even the least important of them is greater than he is." 
Matthew11:12 From the time that John the Baptist began to teach until now, the kingdom of heaven is becoming very strong. Strong people are trying to attack it." 
Matthew11:12 From the time that John the Baptist began to teach until now, the kingdom of heaven is becoming very strong. Strong people are trying to attack it." 
Matthew11:13 All the prophets and the books of the Law spoke God's message until the time that John the Baptist came. 
Matthew11:13 All the prophets and the books of the Law spoke God's message until the time that John the Baptist came. 
Matthew11:14 The prophets wrote about Elijah. They said he would come again, to prepare for the Messiah. They were writing about John, and you should believe their message." 
Matthew11:14 The prophets wrote about Elijah. They said he would come again, to prepare for the Messiah. They were writing about John, and you should believe their message." 
Matthew11:15 You have ears, so listen well to what I say!’" 
Matthew11:16 Jesus said, ‘I will talk to you about the people who are alive today. They are like children who are sitting in the market place. They are playing games and they shout to other children," 
Matthew11:17 “We made happy music on a flute for you, but you did not dance. We sang a sad funeral song, but you did not cry.”" 
Matthew11:18 People today are like those children. John the Baptist did not eat ordinary food. He never drank wine. So people say that he has a bad spirit in him. 
Matthew11:18 People today are like those children. John the Baptist did not eat ordinary food. He never drank wine. So people say that he has a bad spirit in him. 
Matthew11:19 Then I, the Son of Man, came. I eat meals with other people and I drink wine. So people say about me, “Look at him! He eats too much and he drinks too much. He is a friend of bad people and men who take taxes from people.” God is wise. The good things that he does show that he is right.’" 
Matthew11:20 In some of the cities Jesus had done many powerful things. But some people in those cities did not want to stop doing wrong things. They did not want to change how they lived. So Jesus spoke against those people. 
Matthew11:21 He said to them, ‘You people in Chorazin, it will be very bad for you! And it will be very bad for you, people in Bethsaida. I have done great and powerful things in your cities. If I had done such great things in Tyre and in Sidon, the people there would have changed how they lived. They would have shown they were sorry for their sins. They would have put on sackcloth. They would also have put ashes on their heads." 
Matthew11:22 Yes, when God judges everyone, he will punish the people from Tyre and Sidon. But he will punish much more you people of Chorazin and Bethsaida." 
Matthew11:23 And what will happen to you people in Capernaum? You think that God will lift you up to heaven, do you? No! He will throw you down into the deep hole of death. I did powerful things in your town. If I had done these powerful things in Sodom, it would still be there today." 
Matthew11:24 I tell you this. When God judges everyone, he will punish the people of Sodom. But he will punish you people much more!’" 
Matthew11:25 At this moment, Jesus said, ‘Father, you rule over heaven and over the earth! People who do not know many things can now understand your message. And so I thank you. But you have hidden these things from other people who think that they are wise. They think that they understand everything." 
Matthew11:26 Yes, Father, this is how you wanted it to happen." 
Matthew11:27 My Father has given me authority over all things. Only the Father really knows me, his Son. Only I really know my Father, because I am his Son. I also choose to tell some people about him, so they know him too." 
Matthew11:28 Come to me all of you who are tired. You are like people who have worked for a long time. You are like people who have carried heavy things. Come to me. If you do that, you will find a place to rest." 
Matthew11:29 Do what I teach you to do. Listen to my message and learn from me what is true. I am very kind and I do not make myself important. I will help you. Then you will have peace in your mind. 
Matthew11:30 I will not tell you to do things that are too difficult. I will not tell you to carry anything that is too heavy for you.’ 
Matthew12:1 On a Jewish day of rest, Jesus was walking through some fields where wheat was growing. His disciples were hungry. So they began to pick some of the grains of wheat. They began to eat them." 
Matthew12:2 While the disciples were doing this, some Pharisees saw them. They said to Jesus, ‘Look at what your disciples are doing! It is against God's Law to do that on our day of rest.’" 
Matthew12:3 Jesus replied, ‘You have certainly read about what David did one day. He and the men who were with him were hungry." 
Matthew12:4 David went into the temple. He ate the special bread that was there. He also gave some of it to his men to eat as well. But it is against God's Law for anyone except the priests to eat that special bread. 
Matthew12:5 You also know what God's Law says about the priests. They work in the temple, even on the day of rest. They have not obeyed the Law about the day of rest. But God's Law tells us that they have not done anything that is wrong." 
Matthew12:6 But I tell you this. There is someone here now who has greater authority even than the temple. 
Matthew12:7 You should understand what the Bible teaches. God says there, “I want people to be kind to each other. I do not just want them to offer sacrifices to me.” If you had understood this, then you would not have said to me, “Your disciples are doing something wrong.”" 
Matthew12:8 The Son of Man has authority over rules about the day of rest.’ 
Matthew12:9 Then Jesus left that place. He went into the Jewish meeting place. 
Matthew12:10 A man was there. His hand was very small and weak, so he could not use it. Some Pharisees asked Jesus, ‘Is it right to make someone well again on our day of rest?’ They wanted to find a reason to say that Jesus was doing wrong things." 
Matthew12:11 Jesus said to them, ‘Maybe one of you has a sheep that falls into a deep hole on our day of rest. What will you do? You will take hold of it and you will lift it out of the hole." 
Matthew12:12 You know that a man is much more valuable than a sheep. So it is right for us to do good things on our day of rest.’ 
Matthew12:13 Then Jesus said to the man with the weak hand, ‘Lift up your hand.’ So the man lifted up his hand and it became well again. It was now as strong as his other hand." 
Matthew12:14 Then the Pharisees went out from the meeting place. They began to talk to each other about how they could kill Jesus. 
Matthew12:15 Jesus knew that the Pharisees wanted to kill him. So he went away from that place. A large crowd of people followed him. He made all the sick people become well again. 
Matthew12:16 He said to these people, ‘You must not tell anyone about me.’" 
Matthew12:17 This has made what the prophet Isaiah spoke long ago become true. Isaiah wrote what God said: 
Matthew12:18 ‘Here is my servant. I have chosen him to serve me. I love him and he makes me very happy. I will give him the strength of my Spirit. He will tell all the nations that I will judge them fairly. 
Matthew12:19 He will not argue with people. He will not shout at them. People will not hear his loud voice in the streets. 
Matthew12:20 He will not hurt weak people, like someone who breaks a weak reed. He will not destroy helpless people, like someone who puts out a weak flame. He will do this until there is justice everywhere." 
Matthew12:21 All the nations will trust him to save them.’ 
Matthew12:22 After that, some people brought a man to Jesus. The man had a bad spirit in him. Because of this, he was blind and he could not speak. Jesus caused the man to become well again. The man could speak again and he could see." 
Matthew12:23 When Jesus did this, all the people were very surprised. They asked each other, ‘Maybe this man is the Son of David that God will send to us. Could that be true?’" 
Matthew12:24 The Pharisees also heard about what had happened. They said, ‘This man can send demons out of people only because Beelzebul gives him authority. That is Satan, the one who rules all the demons.’" 
Matthew12:25 Jesus knew what the Pharisees were thinking. So he said to them, ‘If armies in a country fight each other, then they will destroy their own country. If people in one city or in one family fight each other, then they will destroy their own city or family." 
Matthew12:26 So Satan would not try to destroy himself. If Satan fights against himself, that would be the end of his own kingdom." 
Matthew12:27 Some of your disciples can also send demons out of people. You would not say that it is Satan's power that helps them. So your own disciples show that you are wrong about this. 
Matthew12:28 When I send demons out of people, I use the authority of God's Holy Spirit to do this. This shows that God's kingdom has already come among you." 
Matthew12:29 Nobody can go easily into the house of a strong man to rob him. To do that, he must first tie up the strong man. Then he can take away all that man's valuable things." 
Matthew12:30 If someone does not agree to help me, he is working against me. You should work with me to bring people to me for help. If you do not do that, you are really making people run away from me." 
Matthew12:31 God is able to forgive all the wrong things that people do. He also forgives the bad things that people say against other people. But God will never forgive people who say bad things against the Holy Spirit. 
Matthew12:32 God will forgive people who say bad things against me, the Son of Man. But God will never forgive people who say bad things against the Holy Spirit. He will not forgive them now or ever.’" 
Matthew12:33 Then Jesus said, ‘To have good fruit you must have a good tree. If you have a bad tree, then you will get bad fruit from it. You can know all about a tree by the kind of fruit that it makes." 
Matthew12:34 You are like the children of dangerous snakes. You cannot say good things when your thoughts are bad. When you speak, your words show what is in your mind." 
Matthew12:35 It is like things that you bring out of a room where you keep them. The good man says good things because he keeps good thoughts in his mind. The bad man says bad things because he keeps bad thoughts in his mind. 
Matthew12:36 I tell you this. One day, God will judge everybody. On that day, he will ask you about every useless word that you have spoken." 
Matthew12:37 God will think about the words that you have spoken. Then he will decide whether to let you go free or to punish you.’ 
Matthew12:38 Then some teachers of God's Law and some Pharisees said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, we want to see you do a miracle. That will show us that God has really sent you.’" 
Matthew12:39 Jesus replied, ‘The people who are alive today are very wicked. They do not obey God, but they want God to show them something powerful. But God will not do this for them. They will only see the same powerful thing that God did for his prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 Jonah stayed inside a big fish for three days and three nights. In the same way, the Son of Man will remain in the ground for three days and three nights." 
Matthew12:41 When God judges everyone, the people who lived in Nineveh will be there. They will stand up and they will speak against you. They will show that the people who are alive today are bad. When Jonah spoke to the people in Nineveh long ago, they stopped doing bad things. But look! There is someone here now who is greater than Jonah was." 
Matthew12:42 Also, the Queen of Sheba travelled a long way to meet King Solomon. She wanted to hear his wise words. When God judges everyone, she will stand up. She will speak against you who are alive today. She will show that you are bad people. She listened to King Solomon. But look! There is someone here now who is greater than Solomon was. But you are not listening to me.’" 
Matthew12:43 Jesus then said, ‘When a bad spirit leaves a person, it travels through dry places. It looks for a new place to live. But maybe it does not find anywhere." 
Matthew12:44 So it says to itself, “I will return to the place where I lived before.” Then it goes back to that person. It finds that the place is empty. Everything there is now good and clean." 
Matthew12:45 So the bad spirit goes out and it brings back seven other spirits. They are even worse than itself. They all go into the person and they live there. Now the person's life is even worse than it was before. The same thing will happen to you wicked people who are alive today.’ 
Matthew12:46 While Jesus was still speaking to the crowd of people, his mother and his brothers arrived. They stood outside the house. They wanted to speak to Jesus." 
Matthew12:47 Someone told him, ‘Look! Your mother and brothers are standing outside. They want to speak to you.’" 
Matthew12:48 Jesus replied, ‘I will tell you who my mother and my brothers really are.’" 
Matthew12:49 Then he pointed to his disciples. He said, ‘Look! Here are my mother and my brothers." 
Matthew12:50 My brothers and sisters and my mother are those people who do what my Father in heaven wants.’ 
Matthew13:1 On that same day, Jesus left the house and he went to Lake Galilee. He sat down near the edge of the lake to teach people." 
Matthew13:2 The crowd that came to listen to him was very large. So he went and sat in a boat that was on the water. The big crowd of people stood on the shore. 
Matthew13:3 Jesus used stories to teach them many things. He said to them: ‘Listen to me! A farmer went out to plant seeds in his field. 
Matthew13:4 While he was throwing the seeds, some of them fell on the path. The birds came and they ate those seeds." 
Matthew13:5 Other seeds fell on ground which had rocks. There was not much soil in that place. The seeds quickly began to grow, because the soil was not deep." 
Matthew13:6 But when the sun rose, it burned the young plants. They soon died because they had not grown down well into the soil." 
Matthew13:7 Some other seeds fell among thorn bushes. Those bushes grew up with the young plants. They stopped the seeds from growing into strong plants. 
Matthew13:8 But some seeds fell on good soil and strong plants grew from those seeds. Some plants made 100 new seeds. Some plants made 60 new seeds and some plants made 30 new seeds.’ 
Matthew13:9 Then Jesus said to the crowd, ‘You have ears, so listen well to what I say!’" 
Matthew13:10 Then Jesus' disciples came to him. They asked him, ‘Why do you use stories to speak to the crowd?’" 
Matthew13:11 Jesus replied, ‘God has let you know what these stories mean. You understand how God rules in the lives of his people. But these other people do not understand what the stories mean." 
Matthew13:12 A person who has received some things will receive even more. He will have lots of good things. Some other people have nothing. Those people will lose even the little bit that they do have. 
Matthew13:13 The reason I use stories to talk to other people is this: These people look, but they do not really see clearly. They hear the words, but they do not really understand." 
Matthew13:14 Long ago, the prophet Isaiah spoke a message from God about those people. Now it has become true. God said: “You will listen and listen, but you will not understand. You will look and look, but you will not see anything." 
Matthew13:15 These people do not want to understand. They are like people who have shut their ears. They are like people who have shut their eyes. If they did want to look, then they would really see. If they did want to listen, then they would really hear. They would understand my message. They would turn back to obey me. Then I would forgive them and I would make them well.” ’" 
Matthew13:16 Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘But as for you, be happy because God has helped you to see. He has helped you to hear and understand his message." 
Matthew13:17 I tell you this. Many prophets and good people from a long time ago wanted to see these things. But they did not see the things that you are seeing. They wanted to hear the message that you are hearing. But they did not hear it.’ 
Matthew13:18 Jesus then said, ‘Listen to me now. I will tell you what this story about the farmer means." 
Matthew13:19 Some people hear the message about God's kingdom but they do not understand it. Satan comes and he quickly takes the message away from their minds. The seeds that fell on the path show what those people are like. 
Matthew13:20 Other seeds fell on soil with rocks in it. This is like some people who hear God's message. These people are happy to believe it for a time. 
Matthew13:21 But they are like plants that have not put roots down into the soil. So they only believe for a short time. They may have problems. Or other people may do bad things to them, because they obey God's message. When that happens, these people soon stop believing." 
Matthew13:22 Some seeds fell among thorn bushes. This is like people who hear the message from God. But they have many troubles in their minds. They want to get more money and more things. They think that this will make them happy. So they do not let God's message change them. They are like plants that do not grow well and make new seeds. 
Matthew13:23 But some seeds fell on good soil. This is like other people who hear the message from God and they understand it. These people are like good plants that grow well. From one seed, some good plants make 100 new seeds. Other good plants make 60 new seeds, and some good plants make 30 new seeds.’" 
Matthew13:24 Then Jesus told the people another story. He said, ‘This is what the kingdom of heaven is like: A farmer planted some good wheat seeds in his field." 
Matthew13:25 But one night, when everyone was sleeping, a bad person came to the farmer's field. He did not like the farmer. This bad person planted seeds of weeds among the good wheat seeds. Then the bad person went away again." 
Matthew13:26 The good seeds grew and the plants began to make new grain. But when this happened, the weeds also grew." 
Matthew13:27 So the farmer's servants came to him. They asked him, “Master, you planted only good seeds in your field but now many weeds are also growing there. How did this happen?”" 
Matthew13:28 The farmer said to his servants, “A bad person who does not like me has done this.” So the servants then asked the farmer, “Do you want us to go and pull up the weeds?”" 
Matthew13:29 The farmer replied, “No, I do not want you to do that. If you pull up the weeds, you may also pull up some of the good wheat plants." 
Matthew13:30 Let the good plants and the weeds grow up together. At harvest time, I will tell the workers to cut down the weeds first. They will tie them together and burn them. Then they will cut the wheat and they will store it in my building.” ’" 
Matthew13:31 Jesus told the people another story. He said, ‘I will tell you again what the kingdom of heaven is like. It is like a very small seed of the plant called mustard. A man took this seed and he planted it in his field." 
Matthew13:32 It is the smallest seed that there is. But when it starts to grow, it will become bigger than the largest bush. It will become a tree. The wild birds will come and they will build their nests among the branches of that tree.’" 
Matthew13:33 Jesus told the people another story. He said, ‘The kingdom of heaven is also like this. It is like how yeast works. A woman took the yeast and she mixed it into three large bowls of flour. Then the yeast went through all the flour so that it grew big.’" 
Matthew13:34 Jesus told the crowds of people all these things. But he only used stories to teach them. 
Matthew13:35 So what God's prophet had said long ago now became true: ‘I will use stories when I speak to them. I will teach them secret things. People have never learned these things before, since the world began.’" 
Matthew13:36 Then Jesus told the crowds of people to go away. He went into the house where he was staying. His disciples also went into the house with him. They said to him, ‘Explain to us the story about the weeds that were growing in the field.’" 
Matthew13:37 Jesus replied, ‘The Son of Man is like the farmer who planted the good seed in the field." 
Matthew13:38 The field is like the world. The good seeds are like the people who belong to God's kingdom. The weeds are like the people who belong to the devil. 
Matthew13:39 The devil is the bad person who planted the weed seeds in the field. The time for harvest is like the end of time. God's angels are the workers who cut the plants down. 
Matthew13:40 In the story, the workers cut down the weeds and they burned them in the fire. When this world comes to an end, it will happen like that." 
Matthew13:41 The Son of Man will send his workers, who are his angels. They will remove from his kingdom everything that causes sin. They will take away everyone who does evil things." 
Matthew13:42 The angels will throw those wicked people into the great fire. There the people will weep and they will bite their teeth together. 
Matthew13:43 The people who obeyed God will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. You have ears, so listen well to what I say!’" 
Matthew13:44 Jesus said, ‘I can tell you what the kingdom of heaven is like. It is like some valuable things that a man buried in a field. Another man found it, but then he covered it over again with dirt. The second man was very happy and he went away. He sold everything that he had. Then he went and bought the field with the valuable things in it." 
Matthew13:45 I will tell you again what the kingdom of heaven is like. A trader was looking for beautiful pearls that he could buy. 
Matthew13:46 One day he found a very valuable pearl that someone wanted to sell. So he went away and he sold everything that he had. Then he bought that very valuable pearl.’ 
Matthew13:47 Jesus also said, ‘I can tell you again what the kingdom of heaven is like. Some men had nets to catch fish in. They threw their nets into the lake and they caught many different kinds of fish." 
Matthew13:48 When the net was full of fish, the men pulled it up onto the shore. Then they sat down. Some of the fish were good to eat, and they put these fish into baskets. Some of the fish were not good to eat, and they threw these fish away." 
Matthew13:49 This is what will happen when the world's time comes to an end. God will send his angels. They will put wicked people in one place. And they will put God's righteous people in a separate place. 
Matthew13:50 The angels will throw the wicked people into the great fire. There those people will weep and they will bite their teeth together.’ 
Matthew13:51 Then Jesus asked his disciples, ‘Have you understood all these things?’ They replied, ‘Yes, we have understood.’" 
Matthew13:52 Jesus said to them, ‘Some teachers of God's Law have now learned about the kingdom of heaven. These men are like the master of a house who brings things out of the room where he keeps them. Some of those valuable things are new and some of them are old.’" 
Matthew13:53 When Jesus had finished telling these stories, he went away from that place." 
Matthew13:54 Jesus returned to his own town. He taught the Jewish people in their meeting room there. The people were very surprised about the things that he taught them. They said to each other, ‘We do not know how this man learned all these things. And we do not know how he does all these powerful things." 
Matthew13:55 We know who he is. He is the son of the carpenter here. Mary is his mother. We also know his brothers, James, Joseph, Simon and Judas." 
Matthew13:55 We know who he is. He is the son of the carpenter here. Mary is his mother. We also know his brothers, James, Joseph, Simon and Judas." 
Matthew13:56 All his sisters also live here in the town among us. So then, where did he learn all these things?’" 
Matthew13:57 So the people there did not accept Jesus. Jesus said to them, ‘If a man is a prophet from God, people everywhere will respect him. But the people in his own town will not accept him. Even the people of his own house will not respect him.’" 
Matthew13:58 Jesus did not do many powerful miracles in that town because the people would not believe in him. 
Matthew14:1 At that time, people told the ruler of Galilee, Herod, about the things that Jesus was doing." 
Matthew14:2 Herod said to his servants, ‘That man Jesus is really John the Baptist. John died but he has become alive again. That is why this man can do these very powerful miracles.’" 
Matthew14:2 Herod said to his servants, ‘That man Jesus is really John the Baptist. John died but he has become alive again. That is why this man can do these very powerful miracles.’" 
Matthew14:3 Before that, Herod had commanded his soldiers, ‘Take hold of John. Tie his hands and feet and put him in prison.’ Herod had done this because of his wife Herodias. Before Herod married her, she was the wife of Herod's brother Philip." 
Matthew14:3 Before that, Herod had commanded his soldiers, ‘Take hold of John. Tie his hands and feet and put him in prison.’ Herod had done this because of his wife Herodias. Before Herod married her, she was the wife of Herod's brother Philip." 
Matthew14:4 John had said to Herod, ‘Herodias was your brother's wife. So it is not right for you to have her as your wife.’" 
Matthew14:4 John had said to Herod, ‘Herodias was your brother's wife. So it is not right for you to have her as your wife.’" 
Matthew14:5 Herod wanted to tell his soldiers that they must kill John. But the people thought that John was a prophet from God. So Herod was afraid to kill him. 
Matthew14:5 Herod wanted to tell his soldiers that they must kill John. But the people thought that John was a prophet from God. So Herod was afraid to kill him. 
Matthew14:6 One day, when it was Herod's birthday, he asked people to come to a special meal. The daughter of Herodias danced in front of him and his visitors. Her dance caused Herod to be very happy." 
Matthew14:7 He said to the girl, ‘Ask me for anything that you want. I make a strong promise that I will give it to you.’" 
Matthew14:8 Herodias suggested to her daughter, ‘Ask Herod to give you John's head.’ So the girl said to Herod, ‘Give me the head of John the Baptist on a plate.’" 
Matthew14:8 Herodias suggested to her daughter, ‘Ask Herod to give you John's head.’ So the girl said to Herod, ‘Give me the head of John the Baptist on a plate.’" 
Matthew14:9 Then Herod felt sad. But he had made a special promise to the girl, and his visitors had heard him. So he sent his men to do what she had asked for." 
Matthew14:10 He said to a soldier, ‘Go to the prison and cut off John's head.’" 
Matthew14:10 He said to a soldier, ‘Go to the prison and cut off John's head.’" 
Matthew14:11 The soldier did this. Then he brought the head on a plate and he gave it to the girl. The girl took it and gave it to her mother. 
Matthew14:12 After this, John's disciples went to the prison. They took away John's body and they buried it. Then they went and they told Jesus what had happened." 
Matthew14:12 After this, John's disciples went to the prison. They took away John's body and they buried it. Then they went and they told Jesus what had happened." 
Matthew14:13 Jesus heard about what had happened to John. After that, he went away from that place. He sailed in a boat to a quiet place where he could be alone. But the crowd heard where Jesus had gone. So they left their towns and they went on land to the place where he was going." 
Matthew14:13 Jesus heard about what had happened to John. After that, he went away from that place. He sailed in a boat to a quiet place where he could be alone. But the crowd heard where Jesus had gone. So they left their towns and they went on land to the place where he was going." 
Matthew14:14 Jesus got out of the boat. He saw a large crowd there on the shore. He felt sorry for them. There were sick people among them and he made them well again. 
Matthew14:15 When it was almost evening, Jesus' disciples came to speak to him. They said to him, ‘We are in a place where there are no houses. It will soon be dark. Send the crowd away now, so that they can go to the villages near here. Then they can buy some food for themselves to eat.’" 
Matthew14:16 Jesus said to them, ‘The people do not need to go away. You should give them some food to eat.’" 
Matthew14:17 But the disciples said, ‘We only have five loaves of bread and two fish.’" 
Matthew14:18 Jesus said, ‘Bring the bread and the fish here to me.’" 
Matthew14:19 Then he said to the large crowd, ‘Sit down on the grass.’ He took the five loaves of bread and the two fish. He looked up to heaven and he thanked God for the bread and the fish. Then he broke the bread into pieces. He gave the pieces of bread to his disciples, and they gave them to the crowd." 
Matthew14:20 Then everybody ate. They all had enough food and they were not hungry any more. Then the disciples picked up all the bits of food that people had not eaten. They filled 12 baskets with little bits of bread and fish. 
Matthew14:21 About 5,000 men ate the bread and fish. Women and children also ate it with them." 
Matthew14:22 Immediately after this, Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Get into the boat and sail across to the other side of the lake.’ Jesus said that he would first send the crowd away. Then he would also leave." 
Matthew14:23 So Jesus sent the crowd away. After they had gone, he went up on a mountain alone to pray. When it became dark, he was still there alone." 
Matthew14:24 At this time the boat with the disciples in it was in the middle of the lake. It was a long way from the land. The wind was blowing against the boat and the water was hitting it. 
Matthew14:25 Then, when it was nearly dawn, Jesus walked on the water towards his disciples." 
Matthew14:26 The disciples saw him walking on the water. They were very frightened. They said, ‘It is a spirit!’ They screamed loudly because they were afraid." 
Matthew14:27 But immediately Jesus said to them. ‘Be brave! It is I. Do not be afraid.’ 
Matthew14:28 Peter replied, ‘ Lord, is it really you? If it is you, say to me, “Come here! Walk to me on the water.” ’" 
Matthew14:29 Jesus said to him, ‘Come to me.’ So Peter got down out of the boat. He walked on the water and he came towards Jesus." 
Matthew14:30 But then Peter saw that the wind was still blowing strongly. He became afraid and he began to go down into the water. He shouted to Jesus, ‘Lord, save me!’" 
Matthew14:31 Immediately, Jesus put out his hand and he took hold of Peter. He said to Peter, ‘You should trust me more than you do. Why did you not believe that I could help you?’" 
Matthew14:32 Jesus and Peter climbed up into the boat. Then the strong wind stopped. 
Matthew14:33 The disciples who were in the boat went down on their knees. They praised Jesus and they said to him, ‘It is true. You really are the Son of God.’" 
Matthew14:34 They sailed across the lake and reached the shore at a place called Gennesaret. 
Matthew14:35 The people who lived in that place recognized Jesus. So they went to tell everyone who lived in places near there. People brought all their sick friends to him. 
Matthew14:36 The sick people asked Jesus for help. They only wanted to touch the edge of his coat. Every sick person who touched him became well again. 
Matthew15:1 After that, a group of Pharisees and teachers of God's Law came from Jerusalem to talk to Jesus." 
Matthew15:2 They said, ‘Our leaders in past times taught us the right way to do everything. But your disciples do not obey the things that our leaders taught us. They do not wash their hands in the right way before they eat a meal. Why is that?’" 
Matthew15:3 Jesus replied, ‘You refuse to obey what God commands us to do. Instead, you like to keep your own ideas." 
Matthew15:4 God's Law says: “You must love your father and mother and obey them.” God also said, “A person should die if he insults his father or his mother.”" 
Matthew15:5 But you teach that a person may say to his father or to his mother, “I would have given gifts to help you. But I cannot do that because I have given them to God instead.”" 
Matthew15:6 Then, you let that person give nothing to his parents. He does not have to help them. This shows that you have not obeyed what God says is right. Instead, you have obeyed your own ideas." 
Matthew15:7 You are hypocrites! What God's prophet Isaiah wrote about you long ago is true: 
Matthew15:8 God says, “These people use their lips to say that I am great, but they do not want to obey me." 
Matthew15:9 They worship me, but what they say has no purpose. They teach their own rules, which I did not give to them.” ’" 
Matthew15:10 Jesus asked the crowd of people to come to him. He said to them, ‘Listen to me, so that you can understand my message." 
Matthew15:11 It is not food that goes into people's mouths that makes them unclean. Instead, what comes out of people's mouths is important. It may show that what is inside them is unclean.’" 
Matthew15:12 Then Jesus' disciples went to him, and they said, ‘The Pharisees heard what you said. They did not agree with what you said. Do you know that?’" 
Matthew15:13 Jesus replied, ‘Those Pharisees are like plants that my Father God did not put in the ground. Like a farmer, he will completely pull all those plants out of the ground." 
Matthew15:14 Do not listen to what the Pharisees say. They are blind, but they try to show people which way to go. A blind person cannot lead another blind person. If he does, then both of them will fall into a deep hole.’" 
Matthew15:15 Peter said to Jesus, ‘Explain to us what you mean.’" 
Matthew15:16 Jesus replied, ‘I am surprised that you still do not understand what I am saying." 
Matthew15:17 You should understand that food first goes into people's mouths. Then it goes into their stomach, and then it passes out of their body." 
Matthew15:18 The words that people speak come from their thoughts. It is what comes out of their mouths that makes them unclean. 
Matthew15:19 Evil thoughts come from people's minds. As a result, they do wrong things. They murder people. They have sex with another man's wife. They have sex in other wrong ways. They rob people. They tell lies about other people. They insult people." 
Matthew15:20 It is these bad things that make people unclean. But if people eat food when they have not washed their hands in the right way, that will not make them unclean.’" 
Matthew15:21 Then Jesus left that place. He went away to some places near to the cities called Tyre and Sidon. 
Matthew15:22 A woman was living in this part of the country. She was one of the Canaanite people. She came to see Jesus. She was shouting with a loud voice, ‘ Son of David, Lord, help me! A bad spirit is living inside my daughter. It is giving her much pain.’" 
Matthew15:23 Jesus did not say anything to the woman. So his disciples came to him. They said, ‘Please, send this woman away. She is following us and she is making a lot of noise.’" 
Matthew15:24 Jesus replied to his disciples, ‘God has sent me to help only the people of Israel. They are like sheep that have lost their way.’" 
Matthew15:25 Then the woman came to Jesus and she went down on her knees in front of him. She said, ‘Lord, please help me!’" 
Matthew15:26 Jesus did answer the woman this time. He said, ‘It is not right to take food from the children and then throw it to the dogs.’" 
Matthew15:27 The woman replied to Jesus. ‘Yes Lord, that is true. But even the dogs eat the small pieces of food that fall from their master's table.’" 
Matthew15:28 Jesus answered her, ‘Woman, you show clearly that you believe in God. God will do what you have asked.’ At that moment the woman's daughter became well again." 
Matthew15:29 Jesus travelled on from that place and he walked along the shore of Lake Galilee. He climbed up a hill and he sat down there. 
Matthew15:30 Large crowds of people came to him and they brought sick people with them. Some of these sick people could not walk very well, and some of them were blind. Some of them could not use their arms or their legs. Some of them could not speak. There were many other sick people who had different illnesses. Their friends put the sick people in front of Jesus. And Jesus caused them all to become well again." 
Matthew15:31 When the large crowd saw all this, they were very surprised. People who could not speak could now speak again. People who could not use their arms or their legs were now well again. Those people who could not walk very well could now walk again. Blind people could now see again. The people praised the God of Israel as a great God." 
Matthew15:32 Then Jesus told his disciples to come to him. He said to them, ‘I feel sorry for this crowd. They have been here with me now for three days. They do not have any food. I do not want to send them away while they are hungry. They might fall down during their journey because they are weak.’" 
Matthew15:33 The disciples said to Jesus, ‘This place is a long way from any houses. We cannot get enough bread here to feed so many people.’" 
Matthew15:34 Jesus asked them, ‘How many loaves of bread do you have?’ They replied, ‘We have seven loaves and a few small fish.’" 
Matthew15:35 Jesus told the crowd that they should sit down on the ground. 
Matthew15:36 Then he took the seven loaves and the fish in his hands and he thanked God for them. Then he broke the bread and the fish into pieces and he gave the food to his disciples. The disciples gave the food to the people. 
Matthew15:37 All the people ate and they all had enough food. After the people had eaten, there were still lots of small pieces of food. Jesus' disciples filled seven baskets with these pieces." 
Matthew15:38 There were 4,000 men who ate the bread and fish. There were also women and children who ate." 
Matthew15:39 Then Jesus sent the crowd of people away. After that, he got into the boat and sailed to the part of the country near Magadan." 
Matthew16:1 Some Pharisees and Sadducees went to see Jesus. They wanted to test him to see what he would do. They asked him, ‘Do a miracle for us to see. Then we will know that God has sent you.’" 
Matthew16:2 Jesus answered them, ‘Sometimes the sky is red in the evening. Then you say, “Tomorrow the weather will be good.”" 
Matthew16:3 Sometimes in the morning the sky is red and there are dark clouds. Then you say, “Today there will be a storm.” So you look at the sky and you know what the weather will be. But special things are happening now and you do not understand what they mean." 
Matthew16:4 The people who are alive today are very wicked. They do not obey God. They want God to show them something powerful. But God will not do this for them. They will only see the same powerful thing that God did for Jonah.’ Then Jesus went away and left them. 
Matthew16:5 Jesus and his disciples sailed over to the other side of the lake. His disciples forgot to take any bread with them. 
Matthew16:6 Jesus said to them, ‘Be careful! Do not accept the yeast of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.’" 
Matthew16:7 The disciples began to talk to each other about this. They said, ‘Jesus is saying this because we did not bring any bread with us.’" 
Matthew16:8 Jesus knew what they were talking about. So he said to them, ‘You should not be arguing with each other about the bread. You should trust me more than you do." 
Matthew16:9 You still do not understand. You should remember that I used five loaves of bread to feed 5,000 men. Think about how many baskets you filled with pieces of food after the meal." 
Matthew16:10 Also remember that I used seven loaves of bread to give food to 4,000 men. And think about how many baskets you filled with pieces of food that time." 
Matthew16:11 I spoke to you about the yeast of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. I said that you must not accept it. You should understand now that I was not speaking about bread.’ 
Matthew16:12 Then the disciples understood what Jesus was talking about. They did not need to be careful about the yeast that they used in their bread. Instead, they must be careful about what the Pharisees and Sadducees were teaching. They must not accept it." 
Matthew16:13 Jesus went into the part of the country near Caesarea Philippi. While he was there, he asked his disciples, ‘When people talk about the Son of Man, who do they say that he is?’" 
Matthew16:14 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are Jeremiah, or another prophet of God.’" 
Matthew16:14 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are Jeremiah, or another prophet of God.’" 
Matthew16:15 Jesus asked them, ‘But what do you think? Who do you say that I am?’" 
Matthew16:16 Simon Peter answered him. ‘You are the Messiah. You are the Son of God, the God who lives for ever.’" 
Matthew16:17 Jesus said to Simon Peter, ‘Simon, son of Jonah, God has blessed you! No person on earth taught you this. God, my Father in heaven, has shown you this." 
Matthew16:18 I tell you this. You are called Peter, which means a rock. And I will build my church on this rock. Not even the power of death will destroy my church." 
Matthew16:19 I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven. You will tell people here on earth what is right for them to do. And you will tell them what is not right for them to do. God in heaven will give you this authority. He will agree with what you say.’ 
Matthew16:20 Then Jesus said strongly to his disciples, ‘Do not tell anyone that I am the Messiah.’" 
Matthew16:21 After this, Jesus began to explain everything to his disciples. He told them, ‘I must go to Jerusalem. There, I will suffer in many ways. The important Jews, the leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law will hurt me. Then people will kill me. But three days later, God will cause me to become alive again.’" 
Matthew16:22 Then Peter took Jesus away from the other disciples. He began to tell Jesus that he must not say things like that. He said, ‘No, Lord! God will never let this happen to you!’" 
Matthew16:23 Jesus turned around and he said to Peter, ‘ Satan, go away from me! I must obey God. But you are trying to stop me. Your thoughts do not come from God. Instead, you are thinking like men think.’" 
Matthew16:24 Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘A person who wants to come with me must not think about himself. He must decide that his own life is not important. He must be like someone who carries his own cross to go and die. Then he may come with me as my disciple." 
Matthew16:25 Whoever wants to keep his life safe will lose it. But whoever agrees to lose his life because of me will have true life. 
Matthew16:26 A person may get everything in the whole world for himself. But if he loses his life, it will not be any good for him. There is nothing that a person can give to get back his life." 
Matthew16:27 I tell you all this because I, the Son of Man, will come back to this earth with God's angels. When I come, I will have the glory of my Father. I will see what each person has done on earth. Then I will pay them what is right." 
Matthew16:28 I tell you this. When I, the Son of Man, come with power, some people who are standing here will see me at that time. Before they die, they will see me begin to rule in my kingdom.’" 
Matthew17:1 Six days after that, Jesus asked Peter and the two brothers, James and John, to go with him. Jesus led them up a high mountain by themselves." 
Matthew17:1 Six days after that, Jesus asked Peter and the two brothers, James and John, to go with him. Jesus led them up a high mountain by themselves." 
Matthew17:1 Six days after that, Jesus asked Peter and the two brothers, James and John, to go with him. Jesus led them up a high mountain by themselves." 
Matthew17:2 Peter, James and John saw Jesus change in front of them. He became different to look at. His face was bright like the sun. His clothes became very white and they shone." 
Matthew17:2 Peter, James and John saw Jesus change in front of them. He became different to look at. His face was bright like the sun. His clothes became very white and they shone." 
Matthew17:2 Peter, James and John saw Jesus change in front of them. He became different to look at. His face was bright like the sun. His clothes became very white and they shone." 
Matthew17:3 Then Moses and Elijah appeared in front of the three disciples. They were talking with Jesus. 
Matthew17:4 Peter said to Jesus, ‘ Lord, it is good that we are here. If you want, please let me build three huts. One hut will be for you. One hut will be for Moses and one hut will be for Elijah.’" 
Matthew17:5 While Peter was still speaking, a bright cloud appeared. It covered them all. A voice spoke from the cloud and it said, ‘This is my Son and I love him. He makes me very happy. Listen to him.’" 
Matthew17:6 The disciples heard the voice. They threw themselves down to the ground. They were very frightened. 
Matthew17:7 But Jesus came to them and he touched them. He said, ‘Stand up. Do not be afraid.’" 
Matthew17:8 When they looked up, they could not see anyone else. Only Jesus was there with them." 
Matthew17:9 While they were walking down the mountain, Jesus said to the three disciples, ‘You must not tell anyone now about the things that you have just seen. One day, the Son of Man will die and then he will become alive again. Then you can tell people about these things.’" 
Matthew17:10 Then the three disciples said to Jesus, ‘The teachers of God's Law say that God's prophet Elijah must return first, before the Messiah comes. Why do they say this?’" 
Matthew17:11 Jesus replied, ‘Yes, Elijah does come first. He gets everything ready." 
Matthew17:12 But I tell you that Elijah has already come. People did not recognize him. They did to him all the things that they wanted to do. In the same way, they will also cause me, the Son of Man, to suffer.’" 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples understood that Jesus was talking about John the Baptist. 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples understood that Jesus was talking about John the Baptist. 
Matthew17:14 Then Jesus, and the three disciples reached the place where the crowd was. A man came to Jesus. He went down on his knees in front of him." 
Matthew17:15 He said to Jesus, ‘Please Lord, be kind to my son. His body shakes and he cannot control it. He suffers very much. Often he falls into the fire, or he falls into water." 
Matthew17:16 I brought the boy to your disciples, but they could not make him well.’" 
Matthew17:17 Jesus replied, ‘You people today still do not believe in God. You have turned away from him. I have been with you for a long time and still you do not believe. It is difficult for me to be patient with you.’ Then Jesus said to the man, ‘Bring the boy here to me.’" 
Matthew17:18 Jesus said to the bad spirit, ‘Stop!’ Then the bad spirit left the boy and immediately the boy became well again." 
Matthew17:19 When the disciples were alone with Jesus, they asked him, ‘Why could we not make the bad spirit leave the boy?’" 
Matthew17:20 Jesus replied, ‘You could not do it because you do not trust God very much. I tell you this. You may believe in God only a little bit, like a very small seed. Even then, you could say to this mountain, “Go away from this place and move to that other place.” Then it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you to do.’" 
Matthew17:21 [Jesus then said, ‘This kind of spirit will not leave a person unless you pray and you do not eat for a time.’]" 
Matthew17:22 When Jesus and his disciples all met together in Galilee, he said, ‘Soon they will put the Son of Man under the power of his enemies." 
Matthew17:23 They will kill him. But three days after that, he will become alive again.’ When the disciples heard that, they were very upset." 
Matthew17:24 After that, Jesus and his disciples arrived at Capernaum. Some men who received taxes for the temple went to talk to Peter. They asked him, ‘Does your teacher pay the tax for the temple?’" 
Matthew17:25 Peter answered them, ‘Yes, my teacher does pay the tax.’ Then Peter returned to the house where Jesus was staying. Before Peter could say anything, Jesus spoke to him first. He said, ‘Here is a question for you to answer, Simon. Who are the people who must pay taxes and money to the kings in this world? Do the rulers take taxes from their own people? Or do they take taxes from foreign people?’" 
Matthew17:26 Peter replied, ‘They take the taxes from foreign people.’ Jesus said to him, ‘This means that the ruler's own people do not need to pay anything." 
Matthew17:27 But we do not want to make these men who take the tax angry. So go to the lake and throw out a hook on a string to catch fish. Pull up the first fish that you catch on your hook. Open the mouth of the fish and you will find a coin inside it. Take the coin and give it to those who receive taxes for the temple. This will be enough money for both my tax and yours.’ 
Matthew18:1 Soon after this, the disciples came to Jesus and they asked him, ‘Who is the most important person in the kingdom of heaven?’" 
Matthew18:2 Jesus called a child to come to him. He made the child stand in the middle of them all. 
Matthew18:3 He said, ‘I tell you this. You must change and become like little children. If not, you will never come into the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew18:4 This little child does not think that he is very important. You must also think as he does. Whoever does this will be the most important person in the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew18:5 If anyone accepts a child like this because of me, that person also accepts me.’" 
Matthew18:6 Jesus said, ‘A person who believes in me may not seem important. But you should never make that person do wrong things. Do not do that! It would be better for you if someone tied a big stone round your neck. Then you would sink deep down into the sea and die." 
Matthew18:7 Some things in this world will cause people to do wrong things. You can be sure that bad things will happen. But it will be very bad for the person who causes these things to happen. 
Matthew18:8 If your hand or your foot causes you to do wrong things, you should cut it off. You should throw it away. It is better to have only one hand or one foot and to have God's true life. It will be much worse to keep both your hands and both your feet and still do wrong things. Then God will throw you into hell, where the fire always burns." 
Matthew18:9 If your eye causes you to do wrong things, then you should take it out. You should throw it away. It is better to have only one of your eyes and to have God's true life. It will be much worse if you keep both your eyes but then God throws you into hell. There the fire always burns." 
Matthew18:10 Be careful! Do not think that any of these little children are not important. I tell you this. They have angels who watch over them. Those angels are always standing in front of my Father in heaven. 
Matthew18:11 [I, the Son of Man, came to look for those who are far away from God.]" 
Matthew18:12 Think about a man who has 100 sheep. He discovers that one of his sheep is not there with the others. What does he do? He leaves all his other sheep on the hills. He goes to look for the one lost sheep. 
Matthew18:13 And I tell you this. If he finds that lost sheep, he will be very happy. All the other sheep are safe together. But they do not make him as happy as this one sheep does." 
Matthew18:14 God, your Father in heaven, is like that shepherd. He does not want any of these little children to be lost, not even one of them.’" 
Matthew18:15 Jesus said, ‘If another believer has done something wrong against you, you must go and speak to him. When you are alone with him, tell him what he has done that is wrong. He may agree with what you say. If he does, then you can call him your friend again." 
Matthew18:16 But maybe he does not want to listen to you. Then take one or two other people with you to speak to him. Remember what the Bible says: “There must be two or three people to say certainly that another person has done something wrong. Two or three people must agree what has happened.” 
Matthew18:17 If your friend still will not agree that he has done something wrong, then go and tell the church leaders. If he does not agree with the leaders, do not accept him as a believer. He is as bad as somebody who refuses to obey God." 
Matthew18:18 I tell you this. You will tell people here on earth what is right for them to do. And you will tell them what is not right for them to do. God in heaven will give you this authority. He will agree with what you say. 
Matthew18:19 Two people may agree together to ask God for something. If they agree like that, then my Father in heaven will give them what they ask for." 
Matthew18:20 Two or more people may meet together because they believe in me. If they do that, I will be there with them.’" 
Matthew18:21 Then Peter came to talk to Jesus. He asked, ‘ Lord, if another believer does wrong things against me many times, how many times should I forgive him? Must I forgive him as many as seven times for the wrong things that he has done against me?’" 
Matthew18:22 Jesus replied, ‘I do not say only seven times. I say you should forgive him 77 times!’" 
Matthew18:23 Jesus then said, ‘I will tell you a story to show what the kingdom of heaven is like. A king wanted to check how much money his servants should give to him because of their debts." 
Matthew18:24 So the king began to check. His men led a servant to him who had a big debt. He must pay back 10,000 gold coins to the king." 
Matthew18:25 The servant could not pay his big debt to the king. So the king said to his men, “Sell the servant and his wife and his children and all his things. Then I will keep the money to pay his debt.”" 
Matthew18:26 Then the servant went down on his knees in front of the king. He said to the king, “Please, please give me some more time, then I will pay you everything.”" 
Matthew18:27 The king felt sorry for his servant. He forgave him for all the debt and let him go free. 
Matthew18:28 But then that same servant went away and he met another servant of the king. This other servant had to pay back a debt of 100 silver coins to the first servant. The first servant took hold of the neck of the other servant to hurt him. He said, “Give me the money that is mine.”" 
Matthew18:29 The other servant went down on his knees in front of the first servant. He said, “Please, please give me some more time, then I will give you the money.”" 
Matthew18:30 But the first servant would not agree. He put the other servant in prison until he could pay his debt to him. 
Matthew18:31 The other servants of the king saw what had happened. They were very upset about it. So they went to see the king. They told him about everything that had happened. 
Matthew18:32 When the king heard this, he told the first servant to come to him. He said to the servant, “You are a very bad person. I forgave you the whole of your big debt to me. I did this because you asked me very strongly." 
Matthew18:33 I was kind to you. You should have been kind to that other servant in the same way.” 
Matthew18:34 The king was very angry with the first servant. He told his men to put him in prison. The guards caused the servant to suffer very much, until he could pay all his debt to the king.’" 
Matthew18:35 Then Jesus finished the story and he said, ‘You must forgive other believers completely. If you do not agree to forgive them, then my Father in heaven will do like that king did. He will punish you very much.’" 
Matthew19:1 When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he went away from Galilee. He went to the part of Judea that is on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Matthew19:1 When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he went away from Galilee. He went to the part of Judea that is on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Matthew19:2 Large crowds followed Jesus there. He made the sick people well again. 
Matthew19:3 Some Pharisees came to talk to Jesus. They wanted to see how he would answer their question. They asked, ‘Can a man send his wife away so that she is no longer his wife? Is it right for him to do that for any reason he chooses?’" 
Matthew19:4 Jesus replied, ‘You surely have read about this in the Bible. In the beginning, when God created the world, he made people male and female." 
Matthew19:5 Because of this, a man leaves his father and his mother. God joins him and his wife together. The man and the woman become like one body." 
Matthew19:6 They are not two separate people any longer. They have come together as one person. God has put them together to be husband and wife. So nobody should make them separate.’ 
Matthew19:7 Then the Pharisees said to Jesus, ‘Moses said that a man could write a letter to say that he and his wife are no longer married. Then the man can send the woman away. Why did Moses say this?’" 
Matthew19:8 Jesus answered them, ‘Moses said this because you people did not want to obey God. But it was different in the beginning, when God made the world." 
Matthew19:9 But now I say to you: A man must not send his wife away and marry another woman. If he does that, it is the same as if he had sex with another man's wife. A man may only send his wife away if she has had sex with another man.’" 
Matthew19:10 Jesus' disciples said to him, ‘You say that this is what it is like for a man and his wife. Then maybe it is better if people do not marry.’" 
Matthew19:11 Jesus replied, ‘Not everyone can agree with this idea. But God has helped some people to accept it." 
Matthew19:12 There are several different reasons why a person may not marry. Some men cannot have sex. They were born like that. Some people cannot have sex because other people did something to them. Some people choose not to have sex. They do not marry because they can work better for God and his kingdom. Anyone who can accept this idea should do it.’ 
Matthew19:13 Then some people brought their little children to Jesus. They wanted him to put his hands on each child's head. They wanted him to pray for them. But the disciples told the people that they should not do that. 
Matthew19:14 Jesus said to them, ‘Do not stop the children. Let them come to me. People must become like these children so that God can rule in their lives. That is what the kingdom of heaven is like.’" 
Matthew19:15 So Jesus put his hands on each of the children's heads and he prayed for them. After that, he went away from that place." 
Matthew19:16 One day a man came to Jesus. He asked Jesus, ‘Teacher, what good thing must I do so that I can live with God for ever?’" 
Matthew19:17 Jesus replied, ‘Why do you ask me about a good thing? Only God is good. Nobody else. If you want to have true life, you must obey God's commands.’" 
Matthew19:18 The man asked Jesus, ‘Which commands must I obey?’ So Jesus replied, ‘Do not kill anyone. Do not have sex with anyone who is not your wife. Do not rob anyone. Do not say things that are not true about people." 
Matthew19:19 Love your father and your mother and obey them. Love other people as much as you love yourself.’ 
Matthew19:20 The young man replied, ‘I have always obeyed these laws. What else must I do?’" 
Matthew19:21 Jesus said to him, ‘If you want to be completely good, then you must do this. You must sell everything that you have. Then give the money to poor people. If you do that, you will have many valuable things in heaven. Then come back and be my disciple.’" 
Matthew19:22 When the young man heard this, he went away. He was very upset. He was feeling sad because he was a very rich man." 
Matthew19:23 Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘What I say is true. It is very difficult for rich people to let God rule in their lives." 
Matthew19:24 The hole in a needle is very small. A camel cannot go through it! But I tell you, it is even more difficult for a rich person to let God rule in their life.’" 
Matthew19:25 When the disciples heard this, they were even more surprised. They said, ‘So perhaps God will not save anyone!’" 
Matthew19:26 Jesus looked at them and he replied, ‘For people, it really is impossible. But God can do it. God can do everything.’" 
Matthew19:27 Peter said to Jesus, ‘Look! We have left everything to become your disciples. What will we receive because we have done this?’" 
Matthew19:28 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘I tell you this. One day God will cause all things to become new. I, the Son of Man, will sit on my great throne as King and I will rule that new world. You who are my disciples will also sit like kings on thrones. You will judge the people of the 12 tribes of Israel." 
Matthew19:29 Some people have left their homes because of me. Or they may have left their brothers or sisters. Or they may have left their mother or their father. Or they may have left their wife or their children or their fields. They have done that because of me. God will give those people many more things than they have left behind, even 100 times more! And after they die, they will live for ever with God." 
Matthew19:30 But many people who are very important now will become the least important. And many people who are not important now will become very important then.’ 
Matthew20:1 Jesus said, ‘I will tell you a story to show what the kingdom of heaven is like. There was an important man who had a field where he grew grapes. He went out early in the morning. He wanted to find some people who would work in his field." 
Matthew20:2 The master agreed with the workers that he would pay them one silver coin for a day's work. Then he sent them to work in the field. 
Matthew20:3 The master went out again about three hours later. He saw some other men standing in the market place. They had no work to do. 
Matthew20:4 So the master said to these men, “You also go and work in my field. I will pay you the right amount of money.”" 
Matthew20:5 So the workers went to the master's field and started to work. The master went out again at noon, and he went again three hours after that. Both times he sent men to his field to work." 
Matthew20:6 Two hours later, at five o'clock, he went out again. He found more men who were standing there and they had no work to do. The master asked them, “Why are you standing here all day and you are not working?”" 
Matthew20:7 The men said to the master, “Nobody has asked us to work for him.” So the master said to them, “You also go now and work in my field.”" 
Matthew20:8 Then the evening came. The master of the field spoke to the man who had authority over the workers. He said to him, “Tell the workers to come here. Pay them their money. Begin with the workers who started to work at the end of the day. Finish with the workers who started first.”" 
Matthew20:9 The workers who had come to work at five o'clock in the evening received one silver coin each. 
Matthew20:10 The workers who had come to work first thought that they would receive more than the other workers. But each of them also received one silver coin. 
Matthew20:11 When they received their money, they were not happy. They told the master that he had not been fair to them." 
Matthew20:12 They said to him, “Some of these other workers came last and only worked for one hour. But you have paid them the same money as you paid us. And we have worked all day in the hot sun.”" 
Matthew20:13 Then the master said to one of the workers, “My friend, I am being fair to you. You agreed to work for one day and to receive one silver coin." 
Matthew20:14 Take your money and go home. I choose to give this last man the same amount of money as I gave to you. 
Matthew20:15 It is my money. I can choose what to do with it. I want to be kind to people and give them more than we agreed. Does that make you upset?” ’ 
Matthew20:16 Jesus then said, ‘So, one day, those people who are not important now will become the most important. Those people who are very important now will become the least important.’" 
Matthew20:17 Jesus and his disciples were going towards Jerusalem. As they walked along, Jesus took his 12 disciples away from the other people. He wanted to speak to them alone." 
Matthew20:18 He said to them, ‘Listen! We are going to Jerusalem. There, someone will give the Son of Man to the leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law. These Jewish leaders will decide that he must die." 
Matthew20:19 Then they will put him under the power of people who are not Jews. Those people will laugh at him. They will hit him with whips. Then they will kill him on a cross. But after three days, he will become alive again.’" 
Matthew20:20 Then the mother of James and John took her sons to see Jesus. (Their father was Zebedee.) She went down on her knees in front of Jesus. She asked him to do something good for her. 
Matthew20:20 Then the mother of James and John took her sons to see Jesus. (Their father was Zebedee.) She went down on her knees in front of Jesus. She asked him to do something good for her. 
Matthew20:20 Then the mother of James and John took her sons to see Jesus. (Their father was Zebedee.) She went down on her knees in front of Jesus. She asked him to do something good for her. 
Matthew20:21 Jesus asked her, ‘What do you want me to do?’ She said, ‘One day, you will be king. Then I want my two sons to rule with you. One may sit at your right side and the other one at your left side. Please will you do this?’" 
Matthew20:22 Jesus said to them, ‘You do not understand what you are asking for. I will soon have much pain and trouble. Are you ready to suffer in the same way?’ James and John replied, ‘Yes, we can do that.’" 
Matthew20:22 Jesus said to them, ‘You do not understand what you are asking for. I will soon have much pain and trouble. Are you ready to suffer in the same way?’ James and John replied, ‘Yes, we can do that.’" 
Matthew20:22 Jesus said to them, ‘You do not understand what you are asking for. I will soon have much pain and trouble. Are you ready to suffer in the same way?’ James and John replied, ‘Yes, we can do that.’" 
Matthew20:23 Jesus said to them, ‘Yes, that is true. You will have pain and trouble like mine. But I cannot promise that you will sit at my right side or at my left side. My Father God has chosen the people who will sit there. He has prepared the places for those people.’" 
Matthew20:24 When the other ten disciples heard about this, they were angry with the two brothers." 
Matthew20:25 Then Jesus told all the 12 disciples to come to him. He said to them, ‘You know the things that rulers of other countries do. They show that they have great power over their people. The leaders of those countries use great authority over their people." 
Matthew20:26 But you should not be like that. The person who wants to be great among you must become your servant. 
Matthew20:27 The person who wants to be the most important person among you must work hard for everyone else. 
Matthew20:28 Even the Son of Man himself came to earth to be a servant to other people. He did not come here to have servants who must work for him. No, he came to die so that many people can be free.’" 
Matthew20:29 Later, Jesus and his disciples were leaving Jericho. A large crowd of people followed them." 
Matthew20:30 Two men were sitting at the side of the road. They were blind. But they heard that Jesus was walking past them. So they shouted, ‘ Lord! Son of David! Please be kind to us and help us.’" 
Matthew20:31 The people who were in the crowd were angry with them. They told them that they should be quiet. But the men shouted even louder, ‘Lord! Son of David! Please help us!’" 
Matthew20:32 Jesus stopped there. He asked the two men, ‘What do you want me to do for you?’" 
Matthew20:33 The men replied, ‘Lord, we want to see again.’" 
Matthew20:34 Jesus felt sorry for the two men. He touched their eyes and immediately the men could see again. So they followed Jesus along the road. 
Matthew21:1 Jesus and his 12 disciples were coming near to Jerusalem. They came to the village called Bethphage, on the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two of his disciples to go further." 
Matthew21:2 He said to them, ‘Go into the village that is in front of you. When you arrive there, you will immediately see a donkey tied there with her young donkey. Undo the ropes and bring both the donkeys here to me." 
Matthew21:3 Someone may ask you, “What are you doing?” Then say, “The Master needs them. He will send them back to you soon.” ’" 
Matthew21:4 A prophet had spoken a message from God about this long ago. Now it became true. 
Matthew21:5 ‘Say to the people in Jerusalem, “Look, your king is coming to you. He is humble and he is riding on a donkey. Yes, he is riding on a young donkey.” ’" 
Matthew21:6 So the two disciples went to the village. They did everything that Jesus had told them to do. 
Matthew21:7 They brought the donkey and the young donkey to Jesus. They put their coats on the backs of the donkeys. Then Jesus sat on one of them. 
Matthew21:8 Many people in the crowd put their coats down on the road. Other people cut branches down from trees. They put these branches down on the road. 
Matthew21:9 Many crowds of people went in front of Jesus and other people followed him. All of them were shouting, ‘We praise the Son of David! May the Lord God bless the king who comes with his authority! We praise God in heaven above!’" 
Matthew21:10 When Jesus went into Jerusalem, everybody in the city had trouble in their minds. They were asking each other, ‘Who is this man?’" 
Matthew21:11 The people in the crowd replied, ‘This is God's prophet, Jesus. He comes from Nazareth in Galilee.’" 
Matthew21:12 Jesus then went into the yard of the temple. People were buying and selling things there. Jesus made them all leave that place. He pushed over the tables of the men who changed coins. He also pushed over the seats of the men who sold birds. 
Matthew21:13 Jesus spoke to them all. He said, ‘The Bible says, “God's house will be a place where people come together to pray.” But you have changed it into a place where robbers meet.’" 
Matthew21:14 Blind people went to meet Jesus in the yard of the temple. People who could not walk very well also went there. Jesus caused them all to become well. 
Matthew21:15 The leaders of the priests and teachers of God's Law saw all the powerful things that Jesus did. They also saw children in the yard of the temple who were shouting, ‘Welcome! We pray that God will bless you, Son of David!’ All these things caused the important Jews to become very angry." 
Matthew21:16 They asked Jesus, ‘Can you hear what these children are saying?’ Jesus replied, ‘Yes, I can hear them. I am sure that you have read this in the Bible: “ Lord God, babies and children praise you. You yourself have taught them to do that.” ’" 
Matthew21:17 Then Jesus left everyone and he went out of the city. He stayed that night in Bethany. 
Matthew21:18 On the next day, early in the morning, Jesus left Bethany to return to Jerusalem. On the way there, he was hungry." 
Matthew21:19 He saw a fig tree near to the road. He went to see if it had fruit on it. But there were only leaves on the tree, and no fruit. Jesus said to the tree, ‘No fruit will ever grow on you again!’ Then, immediately, the tree became dry and it died." 
Matthew21:20 The disciples saw it happen and they were very surprised. They asked Jesus, ‘How did the tree die so quickly?’" 
Matthew21:21 Jesus said to them, ‘I tell you this. You must believe in God. You must not have other ideas in your mind. If you believe in God, then you could also do the same thing to this fig tree. You could even say to this mountain, “Move away and throw yourself into the sea!” Then it would really happen." 
Matthew21:22 So when you pray to ask God for something, believe in him. Then God will give you whatever you ask for.’" 
Matthew21:23 Then Jesus returned to the yard of the temple. While he was teaching the people there, the leaders of the priests and important Jews went to him. They asked him, ‘What authority do you have to do these things? Tell us. Who gave you the authority to do them?’" 
Matthew21:24 Jesus replied, ‘I also will ask you one question. If you tell me the answer, then I will answer your question. I will tell you what authority I have to do these things." 
Matthew21:25 John baptized people. Did God give him the authority to do this? Or did men tell him to do it?’ Then the Jewish leaders talked to each other about Jesus' question. They said, ‘We could say that God gave John his authority. But if we say that, Jesus will say to us, “Then you should have believed John.”" 
Matthew21:25 John baptized people. Did God give him the authority to do this? Or did men tell him to do it?’ Then the Jewish leaders talked to each other about Jesus' question. They said, ‘We could say that God gave John his authority. But if we say that, Jesus will say to us, “Then you should have believed John.”" 
Matthew21:26 But we cannot say that John received his authority from people. All the people think that John was a prophet from God. We are afraid that the crowd might attack us.’ 
Matthew21:26 But we cannot say that John received his authority from people. All the people think that John was a prophet from God. We are afraid that the crowd might attack us.’ 
Matthew21:27 So the Jewish leaders answered Jesus, ‘We do not know who gave John his authority.’ Jesus said to them, ‘You will not answer my question. So I will not tell you what authority I have to do these things.’" 
Matthew21:27 So the Jewish leaders answered Jesus, ‘We do not know who gave John his authority.’ Jesus said to them, ‘You will not answer my question. So I will not tell you what authority I have to do these things.’" 
Matthew21:28 Jesus said to the Jewish leaders, ‘Tell me what you think about this story. A man had two sons. He went to the older son and he said, “Son, go and work in my field today.”" 
Matthew21:29 The older son replied, “I do not want to go and work there today.” But after he had said that, he did go and work in the field." 
Matthew21:30 The man went to his other son and he said the same thing to him. The second son replied, “Yes, father, I will go.” But then he did not go to work in the field." 
Matthew21:31 Tell me, which of the man's sons did what his father wanted?’ The Jewish leaders replied, ‘The older son did what his father wanted.’ Jesus said to them, ‘I tell you this. The men who take taxes from people are going into the kingdom of God before you. It is the same with prostitutes. They also are going into the kingdom of God before you." 
Matthew21:32 John the Baptist came to show you the right way to live. You did not believe him. But the men who take taxes did believe him. Prostitutes also believed him. Even after you saw this, you did not believe him. You did not change the way that you live.’" 
Matthew21:32 John the Baptist came to show you the right way to live. You did not believe him. But the men who take taxes did believe him. Prostitutes also believed him. Even after you saw this, you did not believe him. You did not change the way that you live.’" 
Matthew21:33 Then Jesus said to the Jewish leaders, ‘Listen to another story that I will tell you. There was a man who had his own farm. He planted vines in a vineyard to grow grapes there. He built a wall around the vineyard. He dug a hole in the ground for a winepress to make wine. He also built a tower to watch over the garden. The man then found some farmers to work in the vineyard for him. Then he went away to another country." 
Matthew21:34 When it was nearly time for the harvest, the master sent his servants to speak to the farmers. He wanted them to give him his fruit from the vines." 
Matthew21:35 But the farmers took hold of the servants. They hit one of them with sticks. They killed another one. They threw stones at another servant and killed him. 
Matthew21:36 So the master sent other servants to go to the farmers. He sent more servants than the first time. But the farmers did the same thing to those servants too. 
Matthew21:37 After that, the master sent his own son to the farmers. He thought, “The farmers will surely respect my son.”" 
Matthew21:38 The farmers saw the master's son coming. They said to each other, “This is the master's own son. The farm will belong to him when his father dies. So we should kill the son and then the farm will belong to us.”" 
Matthew21:39 So the farmers took hold of the son. They threw him out of the vineyard and they killed him.’ 
Matthew21:40 Jesus then said, ‘One day, the master will return to his vineyard. What do you think he will do then to those farmers?’" 
Matthew21:41 The Jewish leaders said to Jesus, ‘The master will completely destroy those wicked people. Then he will give the vineyard to other farmers to take care of it. Those new farmers will give the master the fruit that he should have at the time of harvest.’" 
Matthew21:42 Jesus said to them, ‘I am sure that you have read this in the Bible: “The builders refused to use a certain stone. They thought that it had no value. But now that stone has become the most important stone at the corner of the building. The Lord God did this. We can see that he did something great.”" 
Matthew21:43 I tell you this. Because you do not believe in me, God will take his kingdom away from you. He will give it to people who show that they obey him." 
Matthew21:44 When a person falls onto that stone, it will break his body into pieces. When that stone falls on top of someone, it will destroy him completely.’" 
Matthew21:45 The leaders of the priests and the Pharisees heard what Jesus said in his stories. They knew that he was speaking against them. 
Matthew21:46 They wanted to take hold of him and put him in prison. But they did not try to do it because they were afraid of the people. The people thought that Jesus was a prophet from God. 
Matthew22:1 Jesus continued to use stories to teach the people. 
Matthew22:2 He said, ‘This is what the kingdom of heaven is like. A king prepared a special meal for his son's marriage." 
Matthew22:3 He asked many people to come. When the meal was ready, he sent his servants out to tell those people to come. But they refused to come." 
Matthew22:4 So the king then sent out other servants. He said to them, “Tell this message to all those people that I have asked to come. Tell them that the master says, ‘My servants have prepared the meal. They have killed my large oxen and some fat young cows to eat. Everything is ready. Now come to the marriage party!’ ”" 
Matthew22:5 But the people did not think that the king's message was important. They went away to do their own work. One man went to his farm and another man went to his business. 
Matthew22:6 Other people took hold of the king's servants. They hurt them and they killed them. 
Matthew22:7 The king was very angry. He sent his soldiers to the city where those people lived. They killed the people who had murdered the king's servants. They destroyed their city with fire. 
Matthew22:8 Then the king said to his other servants, “The meal for my son's marriage is ready. But the people that I had asked to come did not deserve to come." 
Matthew22:9 So go out now to the town's streets where people meet together. Ask all the people that you find there to come to the marriage party.” 
Matthew22:10 Then those servants went out into the streets. They brought to the king's house all the people that they met. Some were good people and some were bad people. Very many people came. The room for the marriage party was full! 
Matthew22:11 Then the king came into the room to see all the people. He saw one man who was not wearing the right clothes for a marriage. 
Matthew22:12 The king said to the man, “How did you come in here, my friend? You are not wearing the right clothes for a marriage.” The man could not answer the king." 
Matthew22:13 The king said to his servants, “Tie his hands and his feet. Take him and throw him into the dark place outside. There, people will cry and they will bite their teeth together.”" 
Matthew22:14 God asks many people to come to him. But he only chooses a few people to be there with him.’ 
Matthew22:15 After the Pharisees heard this, they met together. They decided what they could do to make Jesus say something wrong. Then they would have a reason to take hold of him." 
Matthew22:16 So they sent their own disciples to Jesus. They also sent people who were friends of King Herod. They said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, we know that you only say true things. You teach us what God wants us to do. It does not matter to you what other people think. If someone is important, you do not change your answers to make them happy." 
Matthew22:17 So tell us your answer to this question: Should we pay our taxes to the Roman ruler, Caesar? Is it right to give that money to him, or not?’" 
Matthew22:18 Jesus knew that these men wanted to do a wicked thing. So he said to them, ‘You are asking that question to cause trouble for me. You are not being honest!" 
Matthew22:19 Now, show me the coin that you use for the tax.’ So they brought a coin to him." 
Matthew22:20 Then Jesus asked them, ‘Whose picture is on this coin? Whose name is on it?’" 
Matthew22:21 They replied, ‘It is Caesar's picture and Caesar's name.’ Jesus said to them, ‘So you should give to Caesar the things that belong to Caesar. And give to God the things that belong to God.’" 
Matthew22:22 When they heard Jesus' answer, they were very surprised. So they left him and they went away." 
Matthew22:23 On the same day, some Sadducees also came to Jesus. Sadducees do not believe that anyone becomes alive again after they die. They wanted to ask Jesus a question." 
Matthew22:24 They said to him, ‘Teacher, Moses said in the Bible: A man might die and leave behind a wife but no children. Then that man's brother must marry the widow. Then their children will be called the children of the brother who died." 
Matthew22:25 Once, there were seven brothers who lived here. The oldest brother married a woman. Then he died before they had any children. So the second brother married the widow." 
Matthew22:26 But then he also died with no children. So a third brother married this woman. And the same thing happened to all the brothers, even to the seventh brother. They all died before the woman had any children." 
Matthew22:27 After all this, the woman also died." 
Matthew22:28 You teach that one day dead people will become alive again. On that day, whose wife will that woman be? She had married all seven of those brothers.’" 
Matthew22:29 Jesus said to the Sadducees, ‘You are wrong. This is because you do not know the Bible. And you do not know how powerful God is." 
Matthew22:30 One day, God will raise people up after they have died. They will become alive again. But then men and women will not marry. They will not have husbands or wives. Instead, they will be like the angels in heaven." 
Matthew22:31 It is true that one day dead people will become alive again. You have read in the Bible about what God said to you: 
Matthew22:32 “I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.” God is not the God of people who are dead. He is the God of people who are alive.’ 
Matthew22:33 The crowd heard this. They were very surprised about what Jesus was teaching. 
Matthew22:34 The Pharisees heard that Jesus had said these things to the Sadducees. Now the Sadducees could not say anything more to him. So the Pharisees met together. They decided what they would say to Jesus. 
Matthew22:35 One of the Pharisees had studied God's Law very well. He asked Jesus a question to see how he would answer. 
Matthew22:36 He said, ‘Teacher, which of God's laws is the most important command for us to obey?’" 
Matthew22:37 Jesus replied to him, ‘You should love the Lord your God completely: Love him with all your mind. Love him with all that you are. Love him in all that you think." 
Matthew22:38 This is the greatest command and the most important of all God's laws. 
Matthew22:39 The second command is also important, like the first one. You should love other people as much as you love yourself." 
Matthew22:40 All God's laws that Moses gave us come from these two commands. All the things that the prophets wrote also come from them.’ 
Matthew22:41 While the Pharisees met together, Jesus asked them," 
Matthew22:42 ‘What do you think about the Messiah? Whose son is he?’ The Pharisees replied, ‘He will be King David's son.’" 
Matthew22:43 Jesus said to them, ‘So think about this. God's Holy Spirit caused King David to call the Messiah his Lord. David said," 
Matthew22:44 “The Lord God said to my Lord: Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies. Then you will be able to put your feet on them.” 
Matthew22:45 We see here that King David calls the Messiah his Lord. So can you really say that the Messiah is David's son?’ 
Matthew22:46 Nobody could answer the question that Jesus asked. After this, everyone was afraid to ask Jesus any more questions." 
Matthew23:1 After that, Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples." 
Matthew23:2 He said, ‘The teachers of God's Law and the Pharisees have authority to explain the laws of Moses." 
Matthew23:3 So you must obey everything that they teach you. But you should not do the same things that they do. They tell you what the Law teaches, but they themselves do not obey it." 
Matthew23:4 The rules that they give you are difficult to obey. Their rules are like heavy luggage, which they make you carry. But they themselves will not help you to carry that luggage. They refuse to use even one finger to help you." 
Matthew23:5 The Pharisees do things only so that people will see them. They wear little boxes with words from the Bible in them, but they make them really big. They also make the tassels on their clothes very long." 
Matthew23:6 They like to sit in the important places at special meals. They also choose to sit in the best seats in the meeting places. 
Matthew23:7 They like people to praise them in the market place. They want people to call them “Teacher.” 
Matthew23:8 You all belong to God's family. You have only one Teacher. So nobody should call another person, “Teacher”." 
Matthew23:9 Also, do not call any other person in the world, “Father”. You have only one Father, and he is in heaven." 
Matthew23:10 And do not call each other “Leader”. You have only one Leader. He is the Messiah that God has chosen. 
Matthew23:11 The person among you who is most important will be your servant. 
Matthew23:12 Some people lift themselves up to be important. But God will bring them down low. Other people are humble. God will lift up those people to a good place.’ 
Matthew23:13 Jesus spoke to the teachers of God's Law and the Pharisees. He said, ‘It will be very bad for you. You are hypocrites! You have stopped people who wanted to go into the kingdom of heaven. It is like you have shut the door so that they cannot go in. Then you yourselves do not even go in." 
Matthew23:14 [It will be very bad for you, teachers of God's Law and Pharisees. You are hypocrites! You take things away from women after their husbands have died. You pray for a long time so that other people will praise you. God will punish you much more than other people.]" 
Matthew23:15 It will be very bad for you, teachers of God's Law and Pharisees. You are hypocrites! You travel far across land and sea. You do this to make one person believe what you believe. Then, when he does believe your ideas, he becomes worse than you are. He shows that he belongs to hell even more than you do." 
Matthew23:16 It will be very bad for you, teachers. You cannot see what is true, but you show people which way to go. You say to people, “You may make a promise by the name of the temple. Then it is not a serious promise. You do not have to do it. But you may also make a promise by the gold things in the temple. Then it is a serious promise, and you must do it.”" 
Matthew23:17 This shows that you are fools. You do not understand what is true. Think about which of these is more important. Is it the gold things in the temple? Or is it the temple itself? It is the temple that makes the gold things special. 
Matthew23:18 You also say to people, “You may make a promise by the altar in the temple. Then it is not a serious promise. You do not have to do it. But you may also make a promise by the gifts on that altar. Then it is a serious promise and you must do it.”" 
Matthew23:19 You are people who cannot understand what is true. Think about which of these things is more important. Is it the gifts on the altar? Or is it the altar itself? It is the altar that makes the gifts special. 
Matthew23:20 Remember this: Somebody may make a promise by the name of the altar. Then he is making a promise by God's name. The altar as well as all the gifts on it are special to God. 
Matthew23:21 Also, somebody may make a promise by the name of the temple. Then he is making a promise by the name of God, who lives there." 
Matthew23:22 Or somebody may make a promise by heaven. Then he is making a promise by the throne where God sits to rule. So he is making a promise by the name of God himself. 
Matthew23:23 It will be very bad for you, teachers of God's Law and Pharisees. You are hypocrites! When you grow spices to cook with food, you give a tenth part of these small things to God. You are right to obey this rule. But you do not obey the more important parts of God's Law. You do not help people in a good way. You are not kind to them. You do not always do what God says is right. You should have done these important things as well as the other small things." 
Matthew23:24 You are like blind people, but you show other people which way to go. You carefully take a small fly out of your water so that you do not drink it. But then you drink the large animal that is swimming in it!" 
Matthew23:25 It will be very bad for you, teachers of God's Law and Pharisees. You are hypocrites! You always clean the outside of your cups and plates very carefully. You only clean the outside part that people can see. But on the inside, everything is still dirty. Inside you, your minds are full of bad thoughts. You want to have more things for yourself. You hurt other people to get what you want." 
Matthew23:26 Pharisees, you do not see what is true! You must first clean the inside of the cup. Then the outside that people can see will also be clean." 
Matthew23:27 It will be very bad for you, teachers of God's law and Pharisees. You are hypocrites! You are like a grave that has nice white paint on the outside and it looks beautiful. But on the inside it is full of bones and disgusting things." 
Matthew23:28 You are the same as that. Other people look at you. They think that you are good and you obey God. But on the inside you are hypocrites. Your minds are full of many bad thoughts. 
Matthew23:29 It will be very bad for you, teachers of God's Law and Pharisees. You are hypocrites! You build up the places where people have buried God's prophets. You make the graves of good people look beautiful." 
Matthew23:30 You say, “Our ancestors killed God's prophets long ago. If we had lived at that time, we would not have helped our ancestors to do that.”" 
Matthew23:31 So you are speaking against yourselves. You show that you are the sons of those people who killed God's prophets. 
Matthew23:32 Now you must finish the work that your ancestors began to do! 
Matthew23:33 You are like a family of dangerous snakes! You will not be able to run away. God will surely punish you, and he will send you to hell." 
Matthew23:34 So listen to this. God says, “I will send prophets and wise men to you. And I will send people to teach you what is true. But you will kill some of these people. You will fix some of them on a cross to kill them. In the places where you meet to pray, you will beat some of them with whips. They will run from one town to another town, but you will chase them.”" 
Matthew23:35 Because of all this, God will punish you for all the good people that you and your ancestors have killed. Long ago, Abel was the first of those good people. You also killed Zechariah, the son of Berekiah. He died in the yard of the temple near the altar." 
Matthew23:36 Yes, I tell you this. God will punish the people who are alive today for all those murders." 
Matthew23:37 Jerusalem, Jerusalem! Your people have killed God's prophets. They have thrown stones to kill other people that God has sent to you. Many times, I have wanted to bring all of your people near to me. A female bird covers her babies with her body to make them safe. But you would not let me keep you from danger like that." 
Matthew23:38 So listen! Your place will now become like a wilderness where nobody lives. 
Matthew23:39 And I tell you this. You will not see me again until the day when you say, “May the Lord God bless the man who comes with his authority!” ’" 
Matthew24:1 Jesus left the temple. While he was leaving, his disciples came to him. They began to talk to him about the buildings of the temple." 
Matthew24:2 So Jesus said to them, ‘Yes, you can see all these beautiful buildings now. But I tell you this. Enemies will completely destroy them. Not even one stone will remain on top of another stone.’" 
Matthew24:3 After that, Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives. While he was alone, his disciples came to him. They said to him, ‘Please tell us when all these things will happen. Also tell us what will show us that you will soon return? What will show us that the world will soon end?’" 
Matthew24:4 Jesus said, ‘You must be careful! Some people will tell you things that are not true. Do not believe them." 
Matthew24:5 Many people will say that they have come on my behalf. They will say, “I am the Messiah.” Many people will believe their false words." 
Matthew24:6 You will hear news about wars. You will hear reports about wars in other places. But you must not be afraid. Those things must happen first, but it is not yet the end of everything." 
Matthew24:7 People in one country will attack the people in another country. Kings and their armies will fight against other kings and their armies. In some places, people will be hungry, with no food. The ground will shake with earthquakes in many different places." 
Matthew24:8 All those things will be like the first pains that a mother has before her baby is born. 
Matthew24:9 Then people will take hold of you and they will cause you to suffer. They will even kill some of you. People in every country will hate you because you are my disciples. 
Matthew24:10 At that time, many people will turn away from God. They will turn against one another. They will hate each other." 
Matthew24:11 Also at that time, many people will say that they are prophets from God. Their message is false, but many people will believe them." 
Matthew24:12 More and more people everywhere will be doing very bad things. Because of this, many people will no longer love each other in the way that they did before." 
Matthew24:13 But God will save the person who remains strong until the end. 
Matthew24:14 People will tell the good news about God's kingdom to people all over the world. People in every country will hear the true message from God. Then God will cause the world to come to an end. 
Matthew24:15 Long ago, God's prophet Daniel wrote in the Bible about something that would happen. He said that one day people would put a disgusting thing that causes trouble in the temple. You will see it in the holy place. (When you read this, you must understand what it means.)" 
Matthew24:16 At that time, people in Judea must run away to the hills to hide." 
Matthew24:16 At that time, people in Judea must run away to the hills to hide." 
Matthew24:17 A person who is on the roof of his house must not go down into his house. He must not stop to get anything from his home to take with him. 
Matthew24:18 People who are outside in their fields must not go back to their homes. They must not even go to get their coats. 
Matthew24:19 That will be a bad time for women who are soon to have a baby! It will also be a bad time for those women who have little babies! 
Matthew24:20 You must pray to God about this time when you have to run away quickly. Pray that this time of trouble will not happen in winter. Pray that it will not happen on your day of rest. 
Matthew24:21 Great troubles will happen to people at that time. Nothing as bad has ever happened before, since the beginning of the world. Nothing as bad will ever happen again." 
Matthew24:22 God will cause those days of great trouble to be not so many. If he did not do that, there would be nobody still alive. But God will cause those days to come to an end. He will do that to help the people that he has chosen." 
Matthew24:23 At that time, someone may say to you, “Look, here is the Messiah.” Or they may say, “There he is!” When they say that, do not believe them." 
Matthew24:24 Some people will say to you, “I am the Messiah!” Other people will say, “I am a prophet from God.” But their words will be false. They will do strange and powerful things for people to see. If possible, they would even deceive the people that God has chosen." 
Matthew24:25 So be careful! I have told you about these things before they happen. 
Matthew24:26 Some people may say to you, “Look, the Messiah is out there in the wilderness.” But do not go out to see who is there. Some people may say to you, “Look, the Messiah is hiding in that secret room.” You must not believe these people." 
Matthew24:27 Lightning shines quickly and it lights up the whole of the sky from one side to the other. It will be like that when the Son of Man returns. 
Matthew24:28 If the dead body of an animal is lying somewhere, vultures will come together in that place." 
Matthew24:29 Then after all these bad things have happened, “The sun will become dark. The moon will not shine any more. Stars will fall out of the sky and the powerful things in the sky will shake.”" 
Matthew24:30 Then people will see a powerful sign in the sky. This will show them that the Son of Man is coming. All the families of people in the world will weep. Then they will see the Son of Man. He will be riding on the clouds in the sky. He will have great power and bright glory. 
Matthew24:31 People will hear the sound of a loud trumpet. The Son of Man will send out his angels. They will go in every direction. They will bring together all the people that God has chosen from every part of the earth and sky. 
Matthew24:32 Here is a lesson for you to learn about fig trees. When the new branches on a fig tree start to grow, the leaves appear. Then you know that the summer will come soon." 
Matthew24:33 In the same way, you will see all these strange things happening. Then you will know that the Son of Man will come very soon. He will be like someone at the door who is ready to come in." 
Matthew24:34 I tell you this. The people who are alive now will not all die until all these things happen. 
Matthew24:35 One day, the earth and the sky will have an end. But my words will be there for ever.’" 
Matthew24:36 Jesus then said, ‘Nobody knows the day or the hour when all these things will happen. Only God the Father knows when they will happen. The angels who are in heaven do not know. Even the Son does not know." 
Matthew24:37 Remember what happened when Noah was alive. It will be like that when the Son of Man returns to the earth. 
Matthew24:38 In Noah's time, in the days before the flood, people were eating their meals every day. Men married women and women married men. They continued to do all these things until the day that Noah went into his big boat." 
Matthew24:39 The people did not know what would happen. Then the flood happened and all these people died in the deep water. When the Son of Man returns, it will happen quickly in the same way." 
Matthew24:40 At that time, it will be like this. Two men will be working in a field. God will take one man away, but he will leave the other man behind." 
Matthew24:41 Two women will be preparing food together in the same place. God will take one of them away, but he will leave the other woman behind." 
Matthew24:42 So you must watch carefully! You do not know the day when your Master will come back. 
Matthew24:43 You can be sure about this. The master of a house does not know at what time of night a man would come to rob him. If he knew the time, he would watch his house more carefully. He would not let the robber come into his house and take away his things." 
Matthew24:44 So you must also be ready. The Son of Man will come at a time when you are not thinking about it.’ 
Matthew24:45 Jesus then said, ‘You should be like a wise servant. He is someone that the master can trust. The master will choose a man like that. He will say to him, “Rule over my house and all my other servants. Give everyone their food to eat at the right time.”" 
Matthew24:46 That servant will be very happy when his master comes home. His master will see that he has done everything well. 
Matthew24:47 Yes, I tell you this. The master will give that servant authority to rule over everything in his house." 
Matthew24:48 But another servant might be bad. He might say to himself, “My master will not come yet.”" 
Matthew24:49 Then he begins to hit the other servants. He eats too much and he drinks too much. He meets with other people who become drunk. 
Matthew24:50 Then the master of that servant will come home and he will surprise the servant. The servant did not think that his master would come home on that day or at that time. 
Matthew24:51 Then the master will punish him a lot. He will put the bad servant with those people who do not obey him. The people in that place will cry and they will bite their teeth together.’ 
Matthew25:1 Jesus said, ‘I will tell you another story to show what the kingdom of heaven is like. There were ten young women who were going to a marriage party. They took their lamps with them and they went to meet the man who was marrying a wife." 
Matthew25:2 Five of these young women were silly. The other five young women were wise. 
Matthew25:3 The silly women took their lamps with them, but they did not take any extra oil with them." 
Matthew25:4 The five wise women took jars of oil with their lamps. 
Matthew25:5 The man did not come to the marriage party for a long time. So all the young women became tired, and they went to sleep." 
Matthew25:6 In the middle of the night, someone shouted out, “The man is coming! Come out to meet him!”" 
Matthew25:7 The ten young women woke up. Then they prepared their lamps to make them give light. 
Matthew25:8 The five silly young women said to the other five young women, “Give us some of your oil, because our lamps are not giving much light.”" 
Matthew25:9 The wise women replied, “If we did that, then there would not be enough oil for all of us. You must go instead to the people who sell oil. You must buy some oil for yourselves.”" 
Matthew25:10 So these five women went to buy some oil. While they were away, the man arrived for his marriage party. The five wise women were ready. They went with him into the house for the party. Then the servants shut the door." 
Matthew25:11 Later, the five silly women also came to the house. They said, “Sir, Sir, please open the door for us.”" 
Matthew25:12 But he replied, “I tell you, I do not know you.” ’" 
Matthew25:13 Then Jesus said to the people, ‘So you must watch carefully. You do not know on what day or at what time I will return.’" 
Matthew25:14 Jesus said, ‘The kingdom of heaven is also like a man who began a journey. Before the master went away, he told his servants to come to him. He said to them, “Take care of all my money and all my things for me.”" 
Matthew25:15 The master gave one servant 5,000 gold coins. He gave another servant 2,000 gold coins, and he gave 1,000 gold coins to another servant. The master gave to each servant what he would be able to use well. Then he went away on his journey." 
Matthew25:16 The servant who had received 5,000 gold coins went out immediately. He bought and sold things with the money. When he did this, he got 5,000 more gold coins." 
Matthew25:17 The servant who had received 2,000 gold coins did the same thing. This servant got 2,000 more gold coins." 
Matthew25:18 But the servant who had received only 1,000 gold coins did something different. He went outside and he dug a hole in the ground. He buried the money that his master had given him." 
Matthew25:19 After a long time, the master came home. He asked the servants to come to him. He wanted to know how much money they had now." 
Matthew25:20 The servant who had received 5,000 gold coins came to his master. The servant said, “Master, you gave me 5,000 gold coins. Now I have an extra 5,000 gold coins.”" 
Matthew25:21 The master said to this servant, “You are a good servant and you have done really well. You were careful with a small amount of money. Now I will give you authority over many more things. Come now, and we will be happy together.”" 
Matthew25:22 The servant who had received 2,000 gold coins also came to his master. The servant said, “Master, you gave me 2,000 gold coins. Now I have an extra 2,000 gold coins.”" 
Matthew25:23 The master said to this servant, “You are a good servant and you have done really well. You were careful with a small amount of money. Now I will give you authority over many more things. Come now, and we will be happy together”" 
Matthew25:24 The servant who had received 1,000 gold coins then came to his master. The servant said, “Master, I know what you are like. You tell people what they should do all the time. You take food from fields where you did not put any seed in the ground. You get fruit from trees that you did not plant." 
Matthew25:25 So I was afraid of you. I went and I buried your gold coins in the ground. Look! Here they are. You can have your money back again.” 
Matthew25:26 The master said to him, “You are a bad and lazy servant. You know what I am like, do you? I get food from fields where I did not put any seeds. I get fruit from trees that I did not plant. You knew all that." 
Matthew25:27 So you should have put the money into a bank. Then, when I came home, I could have received my money back from the bank, with some extra money.”" 
Matthew25:28 Then the master said to his other servants, “Take the 1,000 gold coins from this bad servant. Give them to the man who now has 10,000 coins." 
Matthew25:29 Some people have received good things. They will all receive even more and have lots of good things. Some other people have nothing. Those people will lose even the little bit that they do have. 
Matthew25:30 This servant cannot work for me any longer. Take him outside and throw him into a dark place. There, people will cry and they will bite their teeth together.” ’" 
Matthew25:31 Jesus said, ‘I, the Son of Man, will return one day. Then people will see that I am great and powerful. All God's angels will come with me. I will sit on my great throne as king." 
Matthew25:32 People from all the countries in the world will come together in front of me. I will put them into two groups. I will do it in the same way that a shepherd puts his sheep and goats into two groups. 
Matthew25:33 I will put the sheep on my right side and the goats on my left side. 
Matthew25:34 The king will say to those people who are on his right side, “Come here. My Father has been good to you. He has prepared a place for you in his kingdom. That kingdom has been ready for you since the time that God made the world." 
Matthew25:35 When I was hungry, you gave me some food to eat. When I was thirsty, you gave me some water to drink. When I was visiting your town, you asked me to stay in your home." 
Matthew25:36 When I did not have enough clothes, you gave me some clothes to wear. When I was ill, you took care of me. When I was in prison, you came to visit me there.”" 
Matthew25:37 Then the people on the right side will say to the king, “Master, when did we see that you were hungry and we gave you some food? When did we see that you were thirsty and we gave you some water to drink?" 
Matthew25:38 When did we ask you to stay in our home because you were alone? When did we give you some clothes to wear? 
Matthew25:39 When did we take care of you because you were ill? When did we come to visit you in prison?” 
Matthew25:40 The king will answer them, “I tell you this. You did all these things to help other people. They were not important people, but they were my friends. When you helped them, then you also helped me.”" 
Matthew25:41 Then the king will say to those people who are at his left side, “Go away from me. God has decided to punish you. He has prepared a fire that will burn for ever. He has prepared it for Satan and his servants. You will also go into that fire." 
Matthew25:42 I was hungry but you did not give me any food to eat. I was thirsty but you did not give me anything to drink. 
Matthew25:43 I visited your town but you did not ask me to stay in your home. I did not have enough clothes but you did not give me anything to wear. I was ill but you did not take care of me. I was in prison but you did not come to visit me.” 
Matthew25:44 Then these other people will say, “Master, when did we see you and you were hungry, or you were thirsty? When did we see you alone or without clothes? When did we see you and you were ill, or in prison? When did you need our help and we did not help you?”" 
Matthew25:45 Then the king will reply, “I tell you this. You did not help the people who are my friends. They were not important people. But when you did not help them, you also did not help me.”" 
Matthew25:46 Then those people on the king's left side will go away to the place where God will punish them for ever. But the good people on the king's right side will live for ever with God.’ 
Matthew26:1 When Jesus finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples," 
Matthew26:2 ‘You know that after two days it will be the time of the Passover festival. Then those people who are against me will put me into the power of the rulers. They will fix me, the Son of Man, to a cross to kill me.’" 
Matthew26:3 Then the leaders of the priests and the important Jews met together in the house of the most important priest. His name was Caiaphas. 
Matthew26:4 They wanted to kill Jesus. But they wanted to take hold of him secretly. So they tried to decide how they could do that. 
Matthew26:5 They said to each other, ‘We do not want to take hold of him during the Passover festival. If we do that, the people will be angry and they may fight against us.’" 
Matthew26:6 Then Jesus went to Bethany and he visited Simon at his house. At one time, Simon had had a bad skin disease." 
Matthew26:7 While Jesus was eating a meal there, a woman came into the house. She brought a small stone jar with her. The jar contained expensive oil with a very nice smell. She poured the oil over Jesus' head while he sat there." 
Matthew26:8 Jesus' disciples saw what the woman had done. They became angry and they said, ‘This woman should not have wasted the oil." 
Matthew26:9 She could have sold it for a lot of money. Then she could have given the money to poor people.’ 
Matthew26:10 Jesus knew what his disciples were saying. So he said to them, ‘Do not cause trouble for her. She has done a good thing to me." 
Matthew26:11 You will always have poor people with you. But you will not always have me with you. 
Matthew26:12 She has poured oil over my body. So now I will be ready for people to bury me. 
Matthew26:13 I tell you this. Everywhere in the world people will speak about this good news. At the same time, they will also tell people about the good thing that this woman has done. And so people will remember her.’" 
Matthew26:14 Judas Iscariot was one of Jesus' 12 apostles. He went to see the leaders of the priests 
Matthew26:15 and he asked them, ‘How much money will you give me if I help you to take hold of Jesus?’ The priests gave Judas 30 silver coins." 
Matthew26:16 Judas then waited for the right moment to help them to take hold of Jesus. 
Matthew26:17 The first day of the festival arrived, when the Jews eat flat bread. Jesus' disciples came to him and they asked him, ‘Where do you want us to prepare the Passover meal for you to eat?’" 
Matthew26:18 Jesus replied, ‘Go to a certain man in the city and say to him, “The teacher says: This is the moment that God has prepared for me. I will eat the Passover meal with my disciples in your house.” ’" 
Matthew26:19 So Jesus' disciples did what he had told them to do. They went and they prepared the Passover meal. 
Matthew26:20 When it was evening, Jesus and the 12 disciples sat down to eat the Passover meal together." 
Matthew26:21 While they were eating, Jesus said, ‘I tell you this. One of you will help my enemies to take hold of me.’" 
Matthew26:22 They were very sad about what Jesus had said. Each one of them said to Jesus, ‘ Lord, surely you do not mean me, do you?’" 
Matthew26:23 Jesus said to them ‘The man who will give me to the rulers is eating from the same dish as I am. 
Matthew26:24 The Son of Man must die in the way that the Bible says. But it will be very bad for the man who gives me to my enemies. It would be better for that man if he had not been born.’ 
Matthew26:25 Judas was the one who would give Jesus to the Jewish leaders. But he said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, surely you do not mean me, do you?’ Jesus replied to him, ‘Yes, you have said it.’" 
Matthew26:26 While Jesus and his disciples were eating, he took a loaf of bread. He thanked God for it and then he broke the bread into pieces. He gave some of it to each of them. He said, ‘Take this bread and eat it. This is my body.’" 
Matthew26:27 Then Jesus took a cup. He thanked God for the wine in the cup. Then he gave it to them and he said, ‘All of you should drink some of this wine." 
Matthew26:28 This is my blood that shows the agreement that God makes with his people. When I die, my blood will pour out of my body. In that way God will forgive many people for the wrong things that they have done. That is the agreement that God makes because of my death." 
Matthew26:29 I tell you this. I will not drink wine again until I drink it with you in my Father's kingdom. Then it will be new wine.’ 
Matthew26:30 Then Jesus and his disciples sang a song to praise God. Then they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Matthew26:31 Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Tonight, all of you will turn away from me. It will happen in the way that the Bible says: God says, “I will kill the shepherd who leads the sheep. Then all the sheep will run away in different directions.” ’" 
Matthew26:32 Jesus then said, ‘But after that happens, I will become alive again. Then I will go to Galilee, and you will meet me there.’" 
Matthew26:33 Peter said to Jesus, ‘Even if everyone else runs away, I will not leave you.’" 
Matthew26:34 Jesus replied to Peter, ‘I tell you this. Even tonight, you will say three times that you do not know me. This will happen before the cockerel sings early tomorrow morning.’" 
Matthew26:35 But Peter said to Jesus, ‘I will die with you if I need to. But I will never say that I do not know you.’ All the other disciples said the same thing." 
Matthew26:36 Then Jesus and his disciples arrived at a large garden called Gethsemane. Jesus said to the disciples, ‘Sit here while I go over there to pray.’" 
Matthew26:37 Then Jesus took Peter and Zebedee's two sons, James and John, with him. He became very sad and upset." 
Matthew26:37 Then Jesus took Peter and Zebedee's two sons, James and John, with him. He became very sad and upset." 
Matthew26:37 Then Jesus took Peter and Zebedee's two sons, James and John, with him. He became very sad and upset." 
Matthew26:38 He said to them, ‘I am very sad. I feel as if I could die because I feel so sad. Wait here with me and stay awake.’" 
Matthew26:39 Jesus went a short way beyond them. He went down with his face on the ground. He prayed, ‘Father, if it is possible, please save me from this time of great pain. But Father, I do not ask you to do what I want. Do what you want to do.’" 
Matthew26:40 Jesus returned to the three disciples. Now they were sleeping. He said to Peter, ‘You men could not stay awake with me for even one hour!" 
Matthew26:41 You must stay awake and pray. God can help you, so that you will not do something wrong. You really want to do the right thing, but your bodies are weak.’" 
Matthew26:42 Jesus went away a second time and he prayed, ‘My Father, if it is not possible to save me from this time of great pain, then I want to obey you. Do what you want for me.’" 
Matthew26:43 Then Jesus returned again to Peter, James and John. He saw that they were sleeping. They could not keep their eyes open." 
Matthew26:43 Then Jesus returned again to Peter, James and John. He saw that they were sleeping. They could not keep their eyes open." 
Matthew26:43 Then Jesus returned again to Peter, James and John. He saw that they were sleeping. They could not keep their eyes open." 
Matthew26:44 So Jesus went away from them again and he prayed a third time. He said the same words to God. 
Matthew26:45 When he returned to the disciples, he said, ‘You should not still be sleeping and resting. Look! The moment has arrived! Someone will now give me, the Son of Man, to my enemies." 
Matthew26:46 Stand up, we will go now. Look! The man who will give me to my enemies is here.’" 
Matthew26:47 While Jesus was still speaking, Judas arrived. He was one of Jesus' 12 disciples. A crowd also came with him. They were carrying swords and heavy sticks. The leaders of the priests and the important Jews had sent these people with Judas." 
Matthew26:48 Judas was ready to help the Jewish leaders to take hold of Jesus. Before this, he had told them, ‘I will kiss one of the men. You must take hold of that man.’" 
Matthew26:49 Now Judas went immediately to Jesus. He said, ‘Hello, Teacher.’ Then he kissed Jesus in a friendly way." 
Matthew26:50 Jesus said to Judas, ‘My friend, now do what you have come here to do.’ Then the crowd of men came up to Jesus. They took hold of him to lead him away." 
Matthew26:51 Then one of Jesus' disciples took hold of his sword. He hit the servant of the leader of the priests with it and he cut off the servant's ear. 
Matthew26:52 Then Jesus said to the disciple, ‘Put your sword back in its place. People who use a sword to kill others will themselves die in the same way. Someone will kill them with a sword." 
Matthew26:53 You should know that I could ask my Father God to help me. He would immediately send more than 12 large groups of angels to fight for me. 
Matthew26:54 They would save me. But then the things that God has said in the Bible about this would not happen. So it must happen in this way.’ 
Matthew26:55 At that time, Jesus said to the crowd, ‘You have come out here with swords and heavy sticks to take hold of me. Do you really believe that I am a dangerous robber? Every day I was teaching people in the yard of the temple. But you did not try to take hold of me then." 
Matthew26:56 The prophets wrote long ago that all this would happen to me. Now it has become true.’ Then all of Jesus' disciples ran away and left him. 
Matthew26:57 Then those men who had taken hold of Jesus took him to Caiaphas's house. Caiaphas was the leader of the priests. The teachers of God's Law and the important Jews were meeting there together with Caiaphas. 
Matthew26:58 Peter followed Jesus into the yard of Caiaphas' house. But he did not go near Jesus. He sat down in the yard with the guards who worked in the temple. He waited to see what would happen. 
Matthew26:59 The leaders of the priests and all the Jewish leaders wanted to punish Jesus with death. So they tried to find some people who would say things against Jesus that were not true. 
Matthew26:60 Many people did come. And they said things against Jesus that were not true. But still the Jewish leaders could not find a reason to kill Jesus. Then two men stood up and they said," 
Matthew26:61 ‘We heard this man say, “I can destroy the temple and in three days I can build it again.” ’" 
Matthew26:62 Then Caiaphas stood up. He said to Jesus, ‘You must reply now to what these men have said against you. Are the things that they say true?’" 
Matthew26:63 But Jesus did not say anything. So Caiaphas said to him, ‘I use the authority of the God who lives. You must promise to tell us what is true. Are you the Messiah? Are you the Son of God?’" 
Matthew26:64 Jesus replied, ‘You have said it. And I tell all of you, soon you will see the Son of Man. He will be sitting in the most important place at the right side of the Most Powerful God. You will also see him coming to earth. He will be riding on the clouds in the sky.’" 
Matthew26:65 Then Caiaphas tore his clothes to show that he was angry. He said, ‘Jesus has spoken bad words against God. We do not need anyone else to speak against Jesus. You have heard him speak bad words against God." 
Matthew26:66 Do you think that he is guilty?’ They replied, ‘He is guilty and he deserves to die.’" 
Matthew26:67 Then some of them spat into Jesus' face. They also hit him with their fists. 
Matthew26:68 When they hit him, they said, ‘Messiah! Show us that you are a prophet. Tell us who hit you!’" 
Matthew26:69 While all these things were happening, Peter was sitting outside in the yard. One of the girls who worked there went to him and she said, ‘You were also a friend of Jesus, the man from Galilee.’" 
Matthew26:70 Peter said in front of everyone who was there, ‘That is not true. I do not know what you are talking about.’" 
Matthew26:71 Peter then went out to the gate, and another servant girl saw him. This girl said to the people who were standing there, ‘This man was a friend of Jesus, the man from Nazareth.’" 
Matthew26:72 Peter answered again very strongly. He said, ‘I promise you, I do not know that man!’" 
Matthew26:73 After a little time, other people who were standing at the gate spoke to Peter. They said, ‘We are sure that you too are one of that man's friends. We know this because you speak like people who live in Galilee.’" 
Matthew26:74 Peter said to them very strongly, ‘I tell you that I do not know that man. God will surely punish me if this is not true!’ Immediately after Peter said this, the cockerel sang." 
Matthew26:75 Then Peter remembered that Jesus had said to him, ‘Tonight you will say three times that you do not know me. You will do it before the cockerel sings.’ So Peter went out of the yard. He began to weep a lot because he was very upset." 
Matthew27:1 Early the next morning, all the leaders of the priests and the important Jews met together. They decided how to make the Roman rulers punish Jesus with death." 
Matthew27:2 They tied Jesus' hands and feet and then they took him to Pilate's house. They put him under the authority of Pilate, who was the Roman ruler." 
Matthew27:3 Judas heard that the Jewish leaders wanted the Roman rulers to kill Jesus. Judas was the man who had helped Jesus' enemies to take hold of him. Now he was very sorry about what he had done. So he took back the 30 silver coins to the leaders of the priests and the important Jews. 
Matthew27:4 He said to them, ‘I have done a bad thing. I helped you to take hold of a man who has done nothing wrong.’ They said to Judas, ‘That is not important to us. That is your problem.’" 
Matthew27:5 So Judas took the money and he threw it down on the floor in the temple. Then he went away. He used a rope to hang himself so that he died. 
Matthew27:6 The leaders of the priests picked up the coins. They said, ‘We used this money to catch and kill a man. So we cannot use this same money for the temple work.’" 
Matthew27:7 They decided to use the money to buy a field. They wanted to use the field to bury foreign people who died in the city. The field had been called ‘The Pot-maker's Field’. 
Matthew27:8 After this, it was called ‘The Field of Blood’. It is still called that even today." 
Matthew27:9 So the words that the prophet Jeremiah wrote long ago now became true. He had said, ‘Then they took the 30 silver coins. It was the amount of money the people of Israel had agreed to pay for the man." 
Matthew27:10 They used this money to buy the pot-maker's field. The Lord God had told me to do this.’ 
Matthew27:11 Now Jesus stood in front of the Roman ruler, Pilate. The ruler asked Jesus, ‘Are you the king of the Jews?’ Jesus replied, ‘You have said it.’" 
Matthew27:12 The leaders of the priests and the important Jews spoke against Jesus. They said that he had done many bad things. Jesus did not answer them. 
Matthew27:13 So Pilate said to Jesus, ‘You hear what these men are saying against you. You should reply.’" 
Matthew27:14 But Jesus did not reply to what the men were saying against him. He did not reply even to one thing. Pilate was very surprised about this. 
Matthew27:15 Each year, at the time for the Passover festival, the Roman ruler would let one person go free out of the prison. The people could choose which person should go free." 
Matthew27:16 At that time, there was a man called Barabbas in prison. Everyone knew about the bad things that he had done." 
Matthew27:17 When the crowd came together at Pilate's house, Pilate asked them, ‘Who do you want me to let go free? Should Barabbas go free? Or should it be Jesus, who is called the Messiah?’" 
Matthew27:18 Pilate knew why the Jewish leaders had brought Jesus to him. They were jealous because people liked Jesus so much. 
Matthew27:19 Pilate was sitting on his special seat as a judge. Then his wife sent a message to him. She said, ‘Do not do anything to that man. He has done nothing wrong. Last night I had a dream about him. It gave me a lot of trouble in my mind.’" 
Matthew27:20 But the leaders of the priests and the important Jews talked to the crowds of people. They said, ‘You must ask Pilate to let Barabbas go free. Then he must tell the soldiers to kill Jesus.’" 
Matthew27:21 Pilate asked the people again, ‘Which of these two men should go free?’ The people answered, ‘Barabbas.’" 
Matthew27:22 Then Pilate asked the people, ‘So what should I do with Jesus, who is called the Messiah?’ The people all shouted, ‘Take him and kill him on a cross!’" 
Matthew27:23 So Pilate said, ‘Why should I kill him? What bad things has he done?’ But the people shouted even louder, ‘Kill him on a cross!’" 
Matthew27:24 Then Pilate knew that he could not do anything to make them quiet. He thought that the people would start to fight his soldiers. So he took a bowl of water and he washed his hands in front of the people. He said, ‘It is not because of me that this man will die. You are the people who have caused it to happen.’" 
Matthew27:25 All the people answered Pilate, ‘Yes, God should punish us and our children, if we have done the wrong thing.’" 
Matthew27:26 Then Pilate let Barabbas go free, as the crowd wanted. But he said to his soldiers, ‘Beat Jesus many times with a whip. Then take him and fix him to a cross to die.’" 
Matthew27:27 So Pilate's soldiers took Jesus into the yard of the ruler's house. All the other soldiers in their group were there. 
Matthew27:28 They removed Jesus' clothes from him. They put a purple coat on him. 
Matthew27:29 They used some branches with thorns to make a crown for him. Then they put it on his head. They put a long stick in his right hand. They went down on their knees in front of him. They laughed at him and they said, ‘Hello, king of the Jews, you are great!’" 
Matthew27:30 Then the soldiers spat into Jesus' face. They took the stick and they hit Jesus on his head with it many times. 
Matthew27:31 After they had laughed at him, they took the special coat off him. They put his own clothes back on him. Then they took him out to the place where they would kill him on a cross." 
Matthew27:32 When they were going to that place, they met a man called Simon. He came from the city of Cyrene. The Roman soldiers told Simon that he must carry Jesus' cross." 
Matthew27:33 The soldiers took Jesus to the place that is called Golgotha. (Golgotha means the place of a skull.) 
Matthew27:34 They tried to give Jesus some wine to drink. They had mixed some medicine into the wine. Jesus tasted it, but he would not drink it." 
Matthew27:35 Then the soldiers fixed Jesus onto the cross. They took his clothes for themselves. They played a game with dice to find out who would receive each piece of his clothes. 
Matthew27:36 Then the soldiers sat down and they watched Jesus carefully. 
Matthew27:37 Above his head they fixed a notice. This showed the reason why they were killing him. It said, ‘This man is Jesus, the king of the Jews.’" 
Matthew27:38 Then the soldiers also fixed two robbers to crosses near to Jesus. One robber was at Jesus' right side, and one was at his left side." 
Matthew27:39 The people who walked near there insulted Jesus. They laughed at him," 
Matthew27:40 and they said, ‘You said that you could destroy the temple and then build it again in three days. If you really are the Son of God, save yourself. Come down from the cross.’" 
Matthew27:41 The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law and the important Jews also laughed at him. 
Matthew27:42 They said, ‘This man saved other people, did he? But he cannot save his own life! He says that he is the king of Israel. So he should come down from the cross now. Then we will believe in him." 
Matthew27:43 He says that he trusts in God. So if God wants him, God should save him now. He did say that he is the Son of God.’" 
Matthew27:44 Then the two robbers who were on the crosses next to Jesus also insulted him. 
Matthew27:45 It was now midday. The whole country became dark for three hours. 
Matthew27:46 At about three o'clock in the afternoon, Jesus shouted loudly, ‘Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?’ That means, ‘My God, my God, why have you left me alone?’" 
Matthew27:47 Some people who were standing there heard him. They said to each other, ‘He is shouting to Elijah.’" 
Matthew27:48 One of these people ran quickly and he brought a piece of cloth. He poured bitter wine on it, and he put it on the end of a stick. He lifted it up to Jesus so that he could drink the wine from it." 
Matthew27:49 The other people said, ‘Wait! Now we will see if Elijah comes to save him.’" 
Matthew27:50 Then Jesus shouted again with a loud voice, and after that he died." 
Matthew27:51 At that moment, the curtain inside the temple tore completely into two parts. It tore from the top down to the bottom. The ground shook and rocks broke into pieces." 
Matthew27:52 Places in the ground where people had buried dead bodies opened up. Many of God's people who had died now became alive again. 
Matthew27:53 (Later, after Jesus became alive again, those people came up out of those places. They went into God's city, Jerusalem. Many people saw them there.)" 
Matthew27:54 The army captain and his soldiers had been watching Jesus. They saw the ground shaking. They saw everything that had happened. They were very frightened and they said, ‘It must be true! This man really was the Son of God.’" 
Matthew27:55 There were also many women there. They were standing a long way away and they were watching these events. They had come with Jesus from Galilee to help him. 
Matthew27:56 Mary from Magdala was there. Mary the mother of James and Joses, and Mary the mother of Zebedee's sons, were also there." 
Matthew27:56 Mary from Magdala was there. Mary the mother of James and Joses, and Mary the mother of Zebedee's sons, were also there." 
Matthew27:57 That evening a rich man who came from a town called Arimathea went to Pilate. The man's name was Joseph, and he had become a disciple of Jesus." 
Matthew27:58 Joseph asked Pilate for the dead body of Jesus. Pilate told his soldiers to give Jesus' body to Joseph. 
Matthew27:59 So Joseph took Jesus' body. He put a clean piece of linen cloth around it. 
Matthew27:60 Then he put the body into a new grave hole in a rock. He had prepared the grave for his own body when he died. After he put Jesus' body there, he rolled a very big stone across the front of the hole to shut it. Then he went away." 
Matthew27:61 Mary from Magdala and Mary the mother of James were there. They were sitting where they could see the place where Joseph had put Jesus' body. 
Matthew27:61 Mary from Magdala and Mary the mother of James were there. They were sitting where they could see the place where Joseph had put Jesus' body. 
Matthew27:62 The next day was the Jewish day of rest. The leaders of the priests and the Pharisees met together with Pilate. 
Matthew27:63 They said to him, ‘Sir, that man told lies. When he was still living, he said, “Three days after I die, I will become alive again.” We know that is what he said." 
Matthew27:64 So you should tell some soldiers to watch the place where Joseph put Jesus' body. They should watch there for the next three days. Then his disciples cannot come to take his body away secretly. If they did that, then they could say to the people, “God has caused Jesus to become alive again.” This will be worse than the lies that Jesus told when he was alive.’" 
Matthew27:65 Pilate said to them, ‘You may take a group of soldiers to watch the place. Let them make sure that nobody can open it.’" 
Matthew27:66 So the Jewish leaders and the soldiers went to the place where Joseph had put Jesus' body. They fixed the big stone that closed the front of the hole with a seal. Then they would know if someone moved it. The soldiers stayed there to watch the place very carefully. 
Matthew28:1 After the day of rest had finished, Mary from Magdala and Mary the mother of James got up early. It was dawn on the first day of the week. They went to the grave hole in the rock where Joseph had put the dead body of Jesus." 
Matthew28:1 After the day of rest had finished, Mary from Magdala and Mary the mother of James got up early. It was dawn on the first day of the week. They went to the grave hole in the rock where Joseph had put the dead body of Jesus." 
Matthew28:2 At that moment, there was a strong earthquake. One of the Lord God's angels came down from heaven. He rolled the big stone away from the hole in the rock. Then he sat on top of it." 
Matthew28:3 The angel shone brightly like lightning. His clothes were very white like snow. 
Matthew28:4 The soldiers who were carefully watching that place were very frightened. They suddenly fell down on the ground as if they were dead. 
Matthew28:5 Then the angel said to the women, ‘Do not be afraid. I know that you are looking for Jesus. The soldiers killed him on a cross." 
Matthew28:6 But he is not here. He has become alive again. That is what he said would happen. Come here. You can see the place where he was lying. 
Matthew28:7 Then you must go quickly to his disciples. Tell them, “Jesus is alive again and he is going to Galilee. You must also go there and you will see him.” That is the message that I have brought for you.’" 
Matthew28:8 So the women went away quickly from the grave in the rock. They were very frightened, but they were also very happy. They ran to tell the disciples the angel's message." 
Matthew28:9 At that moment, Jesus met the two women and he said, ‘Hello.’ They went near to him. They held on to his feet and they worshipped him." 
Matthew28:10 Then Jesus said to them, ‘Do not be afraid. Go and tell my disciples to go to Galilee. They will see me there.’" 
Matthew28:11 The women went to tell the disciples Jesus' message. At the same time, some of the soldiers who had been guards at the rock also went into the city. The soldiers told the leaders of the priests everything that had happened." 
Matthew28:12 The leaders of the priests and the important Jews met together. They decided what they should do now. They gave the soldiers a lot of money as a bribe. 
Matthew28:13 They said to the soldiers, ‘When people ask you, you must say this: “Jesus' disciples came to the rock in the night and they took his body away. We were asleep when they did this.”" 
Matthew28:14 If the Roman ruler Pilate hears about this, we will explain things to him. Do not be afraid. He will not punish you.’" 
Matthew28:15 The soldiers took the money. They told people what the Jewish leaders told them to say. Many Jews heard the soldiers' story. Even today they still believe that it happened like that. 
Matthew28:16 After this, the 11 disciples went to Galilee. They went to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go." 
Matthew28:17 When they arrived at the place, they saw Jesus. Then they went down on their knees and they worshipped him. But some of the disciples were not sure that it really was Jesus." 
Matthew28:18 Jesus went near to them and he said to them, ‘God has given me authority over everyone and everything. I have all authority in heaven and in this world." 
Matthew28:19 So you must go to people in every country of the world. Teach them how to become my disciples. Baptize them by the authority of God the Father, his Son and the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew28:20 Teach them to obey everything that I have taught you. You can be sure that I will be with you always. I will be with you until the end of time.’ 
Mark1:1 This is the start of the good news about Jesus Christ. He is the Son of God. 
Mark1:2 The prophet Isaiah wrote this message from God in his book: ‘Listen! I will send someone to prepare a way for you. He will tell people my message. 
Mark1:3 His voice will shout in the wilderness: “The Lord will come soon, so prepare a way for him. Make the paths straight for him.” ’" 
Mark1:4 So John went to a place in the wilderness. He baptized people and he spoke a message from God. John said to people, ‘You have done many wrong things. You must turn away from them and change how you live. Then God will forgive you and I will baptize you.’" 
Mark1:4 So John went to a place in the wilderness. He baptized people and he spoke a message from God. John said to people, ‘You have done many wrong things. You must turn away from them and change how you live. Then God will forgive you and I will baptize you.’" 
Mark1:5 Many people who lived in Jerusalem and in the country of Judea went to listen to John. The people agreed that they had done wrong things. Then John baptized them in the Jordan River. 
Mark1:5 Many people who lived in Jerusalem and in the country of Judea went to listen to John. The people agreed that they had done wrong things. Then John baptized them in the Jordan River. 
Mark1:5 Many people who lived in Jerusalem and in the country of Judea went to listen to John. The people agreed that they had done wrong things. Then John baptized them in the Jordan River. 
Mark1:6 John wore clothes made from the hair of a camel. He also wore a belt made from leather. His usual food was locusts and honey from the wilderness. 
Mark1:6 John wore clothes made from the hair of a camel. He also wore a belt made from leather. His usual food was locusts and honey from the wilderness. 
Mark1:7 John said to the people, ‘Another person will come soon. He is much greater than I am. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him." 
Mark1:7 John said to the people, ‘Another person will come soon. He is much greater than I am. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him." 
Mark1:8 I have baptized you with water. But this man will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.’ 
Mark1:9 Soon after this, Jesus came from the town of Nazareth in Galilee. John baptized him in the Jordan River." 
Mark1:9 Soon after this, Jesus came from the town of Nazareth in Galilee. John baptized him in the Jordan River." 
Mark1:10 While Jesus was coming up out of the water, he saw the skies open. The Holy Spirit came down like a dove and he stayed on Jesus." 
Mark1:11 A voice spoke from heaven: ‘You are my Son and I love you. You make me very happy.’ 
Mark1:12 Immediately, the Holy Spirit sent Jesus out into the wilderness." 
Mark1:13 Jesus was in the wilderness for 40 days. During this time, Satan tried to cause him to do wrong things. There were wild animals with Jesus in the wilderness. God's angels took care of him." 
Mark1:14 Later, John was in prison. At that time, Jesus went to Galilee. He told people the good news about God." 
Mark1:14 Later, John was in prison. At that time, Jesus went to Galilee. He told people the good news about God." 
Mark1:15 Jesus said, ‘Now is the time when the kingdom of God has come very near. You have done many wrong things. Turn away from them and change the way that you live. Believe God's good news.’" 
Mark1:16 One day, Jesus was walking along the shore of Lake Galilee. He saw two brothers called Simon and Andrew. Their job was to catch fish. They were throwing their nets into the lake to catch fish." 
Mark1:17 Jesus said to them, ‘Come with me and be my disciples. Then I will teach you how to catch people, instead of fish.’" 
Mark1:18 Simon and Andrew immediately put down their nets and they went with Jesus. 
Mark1:19 Jesus continued to walk along the shore. Soon he saw two more men who were brothers. They were called James and John. They were the sons of Zebedee. They were in their boat and they were mending their nets. 
Mark1:19 Jesus continued to walk along the shore. Soon he saw two more men who were brothers. They were called James and John. They were the sons of Zebedee. They were in their boat and they were mending their nets. 
Mark1:19 Jesus continued to walk along the shore. Soon he saw two more men who were brothers. They were called James and John. They were the sons of Zebedee. They were in their boat and they were mending their nets. 
Mark1:20 Immediately, Jesus asked them to come with him. They left their father and his workers in the boat, and they went with Jesus to be his disciples." 
Mark1:21 Then Jesus and those disciples went into a town called Capernaum. On the next Jewish day of rest, Jesus went into the Jews' meeting place. He began to teach the people there." 
Mark1:22 The people were very surprised at the things that Jesus taught them. When he taught them, he showed his authority. That was not like the way that the teachers of God's Law taught people." 
Mark1:23 In the meeting place, there was a man who had a bad spirit. The bad spirit caused the man to shout." 
Mark1:24 He said, ‘Jesus from Nazareth, leave us alone! Do not kill us! I know who you are. You are the Holy One and God has sent you.’" 
Mark1:25 Jesus said to the bad spirit, ‘Be quiet! Come out of the man!’" 
Mark1:26 The bad spirit caused the man to shake and to fall down. It shouted loudly and then it came out of the man. 
Mark1:27 All the people were very surprised and they said to each other, ‘This is very strange. This man Jesus is teaching us something new and he speaks with authority. He can tell bad spirits what they must do. Then they do it.’" 
Mark1:28 Immediately, people began to hear the news about Jesus. Everywhere in Galilee, people were talking about him." 
Mark1:29 Then Jesus left the meeting place. He took James and John with him to the home of Simon and Andrew. 
Mark1:29 Then Jesus left the meeting place. He took James and John with him to the home of Simon and Andrew. 
Mark1:29 Then Jesus left the meeting place. He took James and John with him to the home of Simon and Andrew. 
Mark1:30 The mother of Simon's wife was ill in bed. Her body was very hot. Immediately, Simon and Andrew told Jesus about her." 
Mark1:31 So Jesus went to her and he held her hand. Then he helped her to sit up and she was well again. Immediately she prepared food for her visitors. 
Mark1:32 That evening, when the sun had gone down, people in the town came to Jesus. They brought to him everyone who was ill. And they brought people with bad spirits in them. All these people were standing together near the door of the house." 
Mark1:33  
Mark1:34 Jesus caused many sick people to become well. They had many different kinds of illness. He also caused many bad spirits to leave people. The spirits knew who Jesus was. So he did not let them speak. 
Mark1:35 Jesus got up very early the next morning, while it was still dark. He went to a place where he could be alone. He prayed there." 
Mark1:36 Simon and the other disciples went to look for him. 
Mark1:37 When they found him, they said, ‘Everyone is looking for you.’" 
Mark1:38 Jesus replied, ‘We should go to other towns near here. Then I can teach the people there too. That is the reason why I came here.’" 
Mark1:39 So Jesus travelled everywhere in Galilee. He taught the people in the Jewish meeting places. He caused bad spirits to come out of people. 
Mark1:40 One day, a man who had a bad skin disease came to Jesus. He went down on his knees in front of Jesus. The man said. ‘If you want, you can make me well. Please do it.’" 
Mark1:41 Jesus felt very sorry for the man. He put out his hand towards the man and he touched him. Jesus said, ‘I do want to help you. Be clean again!’" 
Mark1:42 Immediately, the disease left the man." 
Mark1:43 Jesus sent the man away immediately and he spoke to the man with strong words. 
Mark1:44 He said, ‘Listen to me. Do not tell anyone about this. Instead, go and show yourself to the priest. Take him a gift for God. Moses' law tells you what you should give when you are clean again after this kind of disease. This will show everyone that you are now well again.’" 
Mark1:45 But instead, the man went away and he talked to everybody. He told people what had happened to him. Because he did this, it became too difficult for Jesus to go into the towns. So Jesus stayed in places in the wilderness. But people came from all the places around there to see him." 
Mark2:1 Several days after that, Jesus returned to Capernaum. People heard the news that he had come back to his home." 
Mark2:2 Many people came into the house. The house was so full that there was no room, even outside the door. Jesus was teaching people about the good news." 
Mark2:3 Four men came. They were carrying another man on a mat. The man could not move his legs. 
Mark2:4 They could not reach Jesus because of the crowd. So they made a hole in the roof above the place where Jesus was. They helped the man to go down through the hole. He was still lying on his mat. 
Mark2:5 Jesus saw the man and his friends. He knew that they believed in him. So he said to the man who could not walk, ‘My friend, I forgive you for your sins.’" 
Mark2:6 But some teachers of God's Law were sitting there. They thought about the words that Jesus had spoken to the man. 
Mark2:7 They thought, ‘This man Jesus should not have said that. He is speaking as if he is God. Only God can forgive people for their sins.’" 
Mark2:8 Immediately, Jesus knew in his spirit what the teachers were thinking. He said to them, ‘You should not think these things." 
Mark2:9 I said to this man who cannot walk, “I forgive you for your sins.” Instead, I could have said to him, “Stand up! Pick up your mat and walk.” Which of those is easier for me to say?" 
Mark2:10 But I want you to know this. I, the Son of Man, have authority on earth to forgive people for their sins.’ Then he said to the man who could not walk," 
Mark2:11 ‘I am saying to you, stand up! Pick up your mat and go home.’" 
Mark2:12 Immediately, the man stood up. He picked up his mat and he walked out of the house. Everyone watched him do this. The people were very surprised. They praised God and they said, ‘God is great. We have never seen anything like this before.’" 
Mark2:13 Jesus went to the shore of Lake Galilee again. A large crowd came to him, and he taught them." 
Mark2:14 While Jesus was walking along, he saw a man called Levi, the son of Alphaeus. Levi's job was to take taxes from people. He was sitting in his office. Jesus said to him, ‘Come with me and be my disciple.’ Levi stood up and he went with Jesus." 
Mark2:15 Then Jesus went to eat a meal at Levi's house. Many people followed Jesus and they ate there with him and with his disciples. Many of these were bad people and also men who took taxes. 
Mark2:16 Some teachers of God's Law who were Pharisees saw what was happening. They said to Jesus' disciples, ‘He is eating with bad people and men who take taxes. That is not right.’" 
Mark2:17 Jesus heard what these people were saying. He said to them, ‘People who are well do not need a doctor. It is people who are ill that need a doctor. Some people think that they always obey God. I did not come to help people like that. But some people know that they have done wrong things. I am asking those people to come to me for help.’" 
Mark2:18 At this time, the disciples of John the Baptist and the disciples of the Pharisees were fasting. Some people came to Jesus and they asked him this question: ‘The disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees often fast for a time. So why do your disciples never do that?’" 
Mark2:18 At this time, the disciples of John the Baptist and the disciples of the Pharisees were fasting. Some people came to Jesus and they asked him this question: ‘The disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees often fast for a time. So why do your disciples never do that?’" 
Mark2:19 Jesus answered them, ‘When a man marries, his friends cannot refuse to eat. They cannot fast while he is with them." 
Mark2:20 But there will be a time when people will take the man away from his friends. At that time his friends will fast.’ 
Mark2:21 Then Jesus said, ‘Nobody uses a piece of new cloth to mend an old coat. If he does, the new cloth will cause the old cloth to tear again. It will make a bigger hole than before." 
Mark2:22 And nobody pours new wine into old wineskins. If he does that, the new wine will tear the old wineskins. He will lose the wine and the wineskins will be useless. Instead, you must put new wine into new wineskins.’" 
Mark2:23 On one Jewish day of rest, Jesus and his disciples were walking through some fields where wheat was growing. While they were walking along, his disciples picked some grains of wheat." 
Mark2:24 Some Pharisees said to Jesus, ‘Look at what your disciples are doing. They should not do that on our day of rest. It is against God's Law.’" 
Mark2:25 Jesus replied, ‘You have certainly read about what David did one day. He and the men who were with him were very hungry. They needed food to eat." 
Mark2:26 David went into the temple. He ate the special bread that was there. He gave some of it to his men to eat as well. This happened during the time that Abiathar was the leader of the priests. It is against God's Law for anyone except the priests to eat that special bread.’ 
Mark2:27 Then Jesus said to the Pharisees, ‘God wanted to help people. So he made a day for them when they should rest. He did not make people so that they could keep laws about the day of rest." 
Mark2:28 So you should know that the Son of Man has authority over rules about the day of rest.’ 
Mark3:1 Another time, Jesus went into the Jewish meeting place. A man was there. His hand was very small and weak, so he could not use it." 
Mark3:2 Some Pharisees were watching Jesus carefully. They wanted to find a reason to say that Jesus was doing wrong things. It was the Jewish day of rest. So the Pharisees watched Jesus to see if he would make the man well on this day. 
Mark3:3 Jesus said to the man, ‘Stand here in front of everyone.’" 
Mark3:4 Then Jesus said to the Pharisees, ‘Is it right for us to do good things on our day of rest? Or should we do bad things? Should we save a person's life? Or should we kill people?’ Nobody said anything." 
Mark3:5 Jesus looked round at everybody. He felt angry with them. He was sad because they did not want to learn. Then he said to the man, ‘Lift up your hand.’ The man lifted his hand and it became well. He could use it again." 
Mark3:6 The Pharisees left the meeting place immediately. They went to meet with some other people who were friends with the ruler, Herod. The Pharisees talked with them about how they could kill Jesus." 
Mark3:7 Jesus left that place and he went away to Lake Galilee with his disciples. A large crowd of people from Galilee followed them. 
Mark3:8 Many people also came to him from Judea, from Jerusalem and from a region of Israel called Idumea. They also came from places on the other side of the Jordan River, and from the towns called Tyre and Sidon. Many people had heard about the things that Jesus was doing. That is why all these people came to him." 
Mark3:8 Many people also came to him from Judea, from Jerusalem and from a region of Israel called Idumea. They also came from places on the other side of the Jordan River, and from the towns called Tyre and Sidon. Many people had heard about the things that Jesus was doing. That is why all these people came to him." 
Mark3:9 The crowd was very large. So Jesus asked his disciples to prepare a small boat for him. They did this so that the people would not push against him. 
Mark3:10 Sick people were pushing to the front, because they were trying to touch Jesus. They knew that he had made many people well." 
Mark3:11 Often, a person with a bad spirit saw Jesus. Then, the spirit caused the person to fall down on the ground in front of Jesus. The spirit caused that person to shout out, ‘You are the Son of God.’" 
Mark3:12 Jesus often had to say to the bad spirits, ‘You must not tell anyone who I am.’" 
Mark3:13 Jesus went up a mountain. He chose some men and he asked them to go there with him. So they met together with him there. 
Mark3:14 He chose a group of 12 men. He called them his apostles. He wanted them to be with him. And he would send them to teach people about God. 
Mark3:15 Jesus gave these men authority to cause bad spirits to leave people. 
Mark3:16 These are the names of the 12 apostles: Simon, (Jesus called him Peter)." 
Mark3:17 James and John who were the sons of Zebedee. Jesus called them ‘Boanerges’. It means ‘men who are like thunder ’. 
Mark3:17 James and John who were the sons of Zebedee. Jesus called them ‘Boanerges’. It means ‘men who are like thunder ’. 
Mark3:17 James and John who were the sons of Zebedee. Jesus called them ‘Boanerges’. It means ‘men who are like thunder ’. 
Mark3:18 Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew (he was also called Levi), Thomas, James, who was the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Zealot" 
Mark3:18 Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew (he was also called Levi), Thomas, James, who was the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Zealot" 
Mark3:18 Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew (he was also called Levi), Thomas, James, who was the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Zealot" 
Mark3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who later gave Jesus to his enemies." 
Mark3:20 Then Jesus went into a house. A crowd of people came together there again. There were so many people that Jesus and his disciples were not even able to eat. 
Mark3:21 People told his family what was happening. So they went to take him away with them. They did this because many people were saying that Jesus was crazy. 
Mark3:22 Some teachers of God's Law came from Jerusalem. They said, ‘Jesus has a bad spirit called Beelzebul in him. That is Satan, the one who rules all the demons. This man can send demons out of people because Satan gives him authority.’" 
Mark3:23 So Jesus spoke to the teachers of God's Law. He used stories to talk to them. He said, ‘Come here and listen to me. Satan would not fight against himself!" 
Mark3:24 If armies in the same country start to fight each other, then they will destroy their own country." 
Mark3:25 And if the people in one family start to fight against each other, they will destroy their own family." 
Mark3:26 So Satan would not attack himself. If he did that, he would destroy his own power. That would be the end of him." 
Mark3:27 Nobody can easily go into the house of a strong man to rob him. To do that, he must first tie up the strong man. Then he can take away all that man's valuable things." 
Mark3:28 I tell you this. God can forgive all the wrong things that people do. He can also forgive people who say bad things against him. 
Mark3:29 But God will never forgive people who say bad things against the Holy Spirit. Those people will always be guilty of a terrible sin.’ 
Mark3:30 Jesus said that to the teachers of God's Law because they had said, ‘Jesus has a bad spirit in him.’" 
Mark3:31 Then Jesus' mother and his brothers arrived and they stood outside the house. They sent someone into the house with a message. They wanted Jesus to come out to speak to them. 
Mark3:32 A crowd of people was sitting around Jesus. Somebody said to him, ‘Look! Your mother and brothers are outside. They are looking for you.’" 
Mark3:33 Jesus replied, ‘I will tell you who my mother and my brothers really are.’" 
Mark3:34 Then he looked at the people who were sitting around him. He said, ‘Look! Here are my mother and my brothers!" 
Mark3:35 My brothers and sisters and my mother are the people who do what God wants.’ 
Mark4:1 Again, Jesus began to teach people near the edge of Lake Galilee. A large crowd came together to listen to him. So he went and sat in a boat that was on the water. The crowd of people stayed on the shore." 
Mark4:2 Jesus used stories to teach them many things. He said to them," 
Mark4:3 ‘Listen to me! A farmer went out to plant seeds in his field. 
Mark4:4 While he was throwing the seeds, some of them fell on the path. The birds came and they ate those seeds." 
Mark4:5 Other seeds fell on ground which had rocks. There was not much soil in that place. The seeds quickly began to grow, because the soil was not deep." 
Mark4:6 But when the sun rose, it burned the young plants. They soon died because they had not grown down well into the soil." 
Mark4:7 Other seeds fell among thorn bushes. Those bushes grew up with the young plants. They stopped the seeds from growing into strong plants. So the plants could not make any new seeds. 
Mark4:8 But some seeds fell on good soil. Good strong plants grew from these seeds. Some plants made 30 new seeds. Some plants made 60 new seeds. And some plants made 100 new seeds.’ 
Mark4:9 Then Jesus said, ‘You have ears, so listen well to what I say!’" 
Mark4:10 When Jesus was alone, the 12 apostles and other people who were there asked him about the stories." 
Mark4:11 Jesus said to them, ‘God has let you understand how he rules in the lives of his people. But these other people only listen to stories." 
Mark4:12 This is so that: They are always looking but they do not see clearly. They are always listening but they do not understand. If they did understand, they would turn to God. Then God would forgive them.’" 
Mark4:13 Then Jesus said to them, ‘You should understand this story. If you do not understand it, you will not understand any of my stories." 
Mark4:14 The seeds are like the message from God. The farmer is like a person who tells people about that message. 
Mark4:15 Some seeds fell on the path. That is like some people who listen to the message. But then Satan comes and he quickly takes the message away from their minds. 
Mark4:16 Some of the seeds fell on soil with rocks in it. This is also like some people who hear God's message. These people are happy to believe it for a time. 
Mark4:17 But they are like plants that have not put roots down into the soil. So they only believe for a short time. They may have problems. Or because they obey God's message, other people may do bad things to them. When that happens, these people soon stop believing." 
Mark4:18 Some seeds fell among thorn bushes. This is like some other people who hear God's message. 
Mark4:19 But they have many troubles in their minds. They think that more money and other valuable things will make them happy. So they do not let God's message change them. They are like plants that do not grow well and make new seeds. 
Mark4:20 But some seeds fell on good soil. This is like other people who listen to the message from God. They understand the message and they believe it. These people are like good plants that grow well. From one seed, some good plants make 30 new seeds. Other good plants make 60 new seeds, and some good plants make 100 new seeds.’" 
Mark4:21 Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Nobody brings a lamp into a house and puts it under a pot or under a bed. You do not do that. You put it up on a high place." 
Mark4:22 God hides some things now. But there will be a time when people will see them. God keeps some things secret now. But there will be a time when people will understand those things.’ 
Mark4:23 Then Jesus said, ‘You have ears, so listen well to what I say.’" 
Mark4:24 Jesus then said, ‘Think carefully about the things that you hear. God will give to you in the same way that you give to other people. And you will receive even more." 
Mark4:25 A person who has received some things will receive more things. Some other people have nothing. They will lose even the little bit that they do have.’ 
Mark4:26 Then Jesus said, ‘I will tell you a story about the kingdom of God. It is like this: A man throws seeds in his field." 
Mark4:27 Then he sleeps each night and he wakes up each day. The seeds start to grow into plants. They continue to grow. The man does not know how this happens. 
Mark4:28 The soil causes the plants to grow. The leaves of the plant grow first. Then the flowers appear. Then the plant makes new seeds. 
Mark4:29 When the new seeds have completely grown, the man will cut down the plants. It is time for him to take the seeds to use for food.’" 
Mark4:30 Jesus said, ‘I will tell you another story about the kingdom of God. This story shows what the kingdom of God is like." 
Mark4:31 It is like this: A man takes a seed of the plant called mustard. He plants it in the soil. It is smaller than any other seed that people plant in the soil. 
Mark4:32 But when it starts to grow, it becomes bigger than the largest bush. It will have big branches. Then the birds will come and they will live there. They will build their nests in the shade of the branches.’" 
Mark4:33 Jesus taught God's message to the people. He used many stories like these. He told the people as much as they could understand. 
Mark4:34 He always used stories to teach the people. Then he explained everything to his own disciples when he was alone with them. 
Mark4:35 On that same day, in the evening, Jesus said to his disciples, ‘We should go across the lake to the other side.’" 
Mark4:36 So they went and left the crowd behind. Jesus was already in the boat. So the disciples took him across the lake. Some other boats also went with them. 
Mark4:37 Then a strong wind began to blow across the lake. Water began to go into the boat and fill it. Soon the boat was almost going under the water. 
Mark4:38 Jesus was in a comfortable place at the back of the boat. He was sleeping. The disciples woke him. They said to him, ‘Teacher, we will die here in the water! Please do something!’" 
Mark4:39 Jesus woke up and he spoke strongly to the wind and to the water. He said, ‘Be quiet! Stop!’ Then the wind stopped and the water became quiet again." 
Mark4:40 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘You should not be afraid like that. You should trust me.’" 
Mark4:41 But the disciples became very afraid. They said to each other, ‘Who is this man? Even the wind and the water obey him.’" 
Mark5:1 Jesus and his disciples arrived at the other side of the lake. They came to a place where the Gerasene people lived. 
Mark5:2 Jesus got out of the boat. Immediately, a man with a bad spirit in him came to him. This man lived outside, among some graves. He was very strong and nobody could hold him. People often put chains around his hands and his feet to hold him. They wanted to keep him in a safe place. But he broke the chains that held him." 
Mark5:3  
Mark5:4  
Mark5:5 The man often walked in the place where the graves were and on the hills. Every day and every night, he screamed and he used stones to cut himself." 
Mark5:6 The man saw Jesus a long way away and he ran to meet him. He went down on his knees in front of Jesus. 
Mark5:7 He screamed loudly, ‘Jesus, you are the Son of the Most High God! What are you doing here? Please, promise God that you will not hurt me.’" 
Mark5:8 He said that because Jesus had already said to the bad spirit, ‘Come out of this man.’" 
Mark5:9 Then Jesus asked the man, ‘What is your name?’ The man replied, ‘My name is Army because we are many bad spirits here.’" 
Mark5:10 He said to Jesus many times, ‘Please do not send these bad spirits away from this place.’" 
Mark5:11 A large group of pigs was eating on the hill. 
Mark5:12 The bad spirits said, ‘Jesus, send us to the pigs. Let us go into them.’" 
Mark5:13 Jesus let them do this. So the bad spirits came out of the man and they went into the pigs. There were about 2,000 pigs. They rushed together down the hill into the lake. All the pigs died there in the water." 
Mark5:14 The men who were taking care of these pigs ran away. They told the people in the town and in the villages what had happened. Then those people came to see the place for themselves. 
Mark5:15 They came to Jesus. They saw the man that the army of bad spirits had ruled. He was now sitting there quietly. He was wearing clothes and his mind was well again. When the people saw this, they were afraid." 
Mark5:16 The people who had seen this told other people what had happened to the man. They also explained what happened to the pigs. 
Mark5:17 Then the people who lived there said to Jesus, ‘Please go away. Leave this place.’" 
Mark5:18 Jesus got back into the boat. The man that the bad spirits had ruled spoke to him. He told Jesus that he wanted to go with him. 
Mark5:19 But Jesus did not let him do this. Jesus said to him, ‘Go to your home and to your friends. Tell them what the Lord has done for you. Tell them how he has been kind to you.’" 
Mark5:20 So the man went away. He began to speak to many people in the region called ‘The ten cities’. He told them about the great things that Jesus had done for him. All the people were very surprised. 
Mark5:21 Jesus returned to the other side of the lake in the boat. While he was beside the lake, a large crowd came to him." 
Mark5:22 A man called Jairus came to Jesus. He was a leader at the Jewish meeting place. When he saw Jesus, he went down on his knees in front of him." 
Mark5:23 He said, ‘My little daughter is very ill and she will die very soon. Please come to my house and put your hands on her. Then she will be well and she will live.’" 
Mark5:24 So Jesus went with Jairus. A large crowd followed Jesus. The people were pushing against him. 
Mark5:25 There was a sick woman who had lost blood for 12 years. 
Mark5:26 She had paid many doctors to help her to become well. But they could not do anything. Now she had spent all her money. She had not become well. Instead, she was now worse." 
Mark5:27 People had told her about Jesus. So she came in the crowd behind him and she touched his coat. 
Mark5:28 She thought, ‘Even if I can only touch his clothes, I will become well again.’" 
Mark5:29 As soon as she touched Jesus' coat, the blood stopped. She felt in her body that her illness was better. She knew that she was well again." 
Mark5:30 Jesus knew immediately that something powerful had gone out from him. So he turned around in the crowd and he asked, ‘Who touched my clothes?’" 
Mark5:31 His disciples replied, ‘You can see that the crowd is pushing against you. So you cannot ask who touched you!’" 
Mark5:32 But Jesus looked around him. He wanted to see who had touched him. 
Mark5:33 The woman knew what had happened to her. She felt very afraid. But she came to Jesus, and she went down on her knees in front of him. Then she told him everything that had happened to her." 
Mark5:34 Jesus said to her, ‘Young woman, you are now well again because you believed in me. Have peace in your mind. Go now and have no more pain.’" 
Mark5:35 While Jesus was still speaking, some men arrived from the house of Jairus. He was the leader at the Jews' meeting place. The men said to Jairus, ‘Your daughter is dead. Do not ask any longer for the teacher to come.’" 
Mark5:36 Jesus heard what the men said to Jairus. But Jesus said to him, ‘Do not be afraid. Instead, believe.’" 
Mark5:37 Jesus took only Peter, James and James's brother, John, with him. He would not let anyone else go with him." 
Mark5:37 Jesus took only Peter, James and James's brother, John, with him. He would not let anyone else go with him." 
Mark5:37 Jesus took only Peter, James and James's brother, John, with him. He would not let anyone else go with him." 
Mark5:38 Then they came to Jairus's house. Jesus saw that there were many people there. They were crying and they were making a loud noise. 
Mark5:39 Jesus went into the house and he said to the people, ‘You should not be weeping and making a noise. The child is not dead. She is asleep.’" 
Mark5:40 The people laughed at Jesus when he said that. Then Jesus sent them all out of the house. He went into the place where the child was lying. The child's father and mother went with him. He also took Peter, James and John with him." 
Mark5:40 The people laughed at Jesus when he said that. Then Jesus sent them all out of the house. He went into the place where the child was lying. The child's father and mother went with him. He also took Peter, James and John with him." 
Mark5:40 The people laughed at Jesus when he said that. Then Jesus sent them all out of the house. He went into the place where the child was lying. The child's father and mother went with him. He also took Peter, James and John with him." 
Mark5:41 Then Jesus held the girl's hand. He said to her, ‘Talitha koum.’ This means, ‘Little girl, I say to you, stand up!’" 
Mark5:42 The girl stood up immediately and she walked about. She was 12 years old. The people there were very surprised. 
Mark5:43 Jesus said to them, ‘You must not tell anyone what has happened here. Now give the girl something to eat.’" 
Mark6:1 Jesus left that place. He went to his own town. His disciples went with him. 
Mark6:2 When it was the Jewish day of rest, Jesus went to their meeting place. He began to teach the people who were there. Many of them were surprised about the things that he was saying to them. They said to each other, ‘How did this man learn all these things? How did he become so wise? How does he do all these powerful things?" 
Mark6:3 We know he is an ordinary man. He is the carpenter. He is the son of Mary and the brother of James, Joses, Simon and Judas. His sisters live here in the town among us. We know that is true.’ So the people there did not respect Jesus." 
Mark6:3 We know he is an ordinary man. He is the carpenter. He is the son of Mary and the brother of James, Joses, Simon and Judas. His sisters live here in the town among us. We know that is true.’ So the people there did not respect Jesus." 
Mark6:4 Then Jesus said to them, ‘If a man is a prophet from God, people everywhere will respect him. But the people in his own town will not accept him. Even his own people and his own family will not respect him.’" 
Mark6:5 Jesus could not do any powerful miracles in his own town. But he did put his hands on a few sick people and he made them well. 
Mark6:6 Jesus was very surprised because the people there would not believe in him. Then he went to visit the other villages that were near there. He was teaching the people who lived in those villages. 
Mark6:7 Jesus asked his 12 apostles to come to him. He started to send them out to tell God's message to people. He sent them out two by two and he gave them authority over bad spirits. 
Mark6:8 Jesus told the disciples, ‘Only take a stick for the journey, nothing else. Do not take any bread or a bag. Do not take any money in your pockets." 
Mark6:9 Wear shoes but do not take extra clothes. 
Mark6:10 In each town, stay at the first house that you go into. Continue to stay there until you leave that town." 
Mark6:11 Perhaps you might go to a town where the people do not accept you. They will not listen to you. So you should leave that town. Clean that town's dirt off your feet. Then it will be clear that they have done something wrong.’ 
Mark6:12 So the 12 apostles went out. They told people that they must change the way that they live. They must stop doing wrong things. 
Mark6:13 The disciples caused many bad spirits to come out of people. They also put olive oil on many sick people, and the sick people became well." 
Mark6:14 People were talking about Jesus. King Herod heard about what was happening. Some people were saying that Jesus was really John the Baptist. They said, ‘John died, but now he has become alive again. That is why this man can do very powerful miracles.’" 
Mark6:14 People were talking about Jesus. King Herod heard about what was happening. Some people were saying that Jesus was really John the Baptist. They said, ‘John died, but now he has become alive again. That is why this man can do very powerful miracles.’" 
Mark6:15 Other people said, ‘This man is Elijah.’ And some other people said, ‘He is a prophet. He is like one of God's prophets who lived a long time ago.’" 
Mark6:16 But when someone told Herod, he said, ‘This man is surely John. I sent a soldier to cut off his head. But he has become alive again!’" 
Mark6:16 But when someone told Herod, he said, ‘This man is surely John. I sent a soldier to cut off his head. But he has become alive again!’" 
Mark6:17 Herod himself had sent his soldiers to take hold of John. He had said to his soldiers, ‘Tie his hands and feet and put him in prison.’ Herod had done that because of his wife, Herodias. She had been the wife of Herod's brother, Philip. But Herod had married her." 
Mark6:17 Herod himself had sent his soldiers to take hold of John. He had said to his soldiers, ‘Tie his hands and feet and put him in prison.’ Herod had done that because of his wife, Herodias. She had been the wife of Herod's brother, Philip. But Herod had married her." 
Mark6:18 John had said to him, ‘Herodias is your brother's wife. It is not right for you to have her as your wife.’" 
Mark6:18 John had said to him, ‘Herodias is your brother's wife. It is not right for you to have her as your wife.’" 
Mark6:19 So Herodias was angry with John. She wanted to kill him. But she could not do that," 
Mark6:19 So Herodias was angry with John. She wanted to kill him. But she could not do that," 
Mark6:20 because Herod was afraid of John. Herod knew that John was a good man and a servant of God. So Herod kept John safe. He liked to listen to the things that John said. But he did not know what to think about those things. 
Mark6:20 because Herod was afraid of John. Herod knew that John was a good man and a servant of God. So Herod kept John safe. He liked to listen to the things that John said. But he did not know what to think about those things. 
Mark6:21 One day, Herodias had her chance. It was Herod's birthday and he asked many people to come to a special meal. Important men and officers came. The rulers from Galilee were also there." 
Mark6:22 The daughter of Herodias came in and she danced. Herod and his visitors were very happy when they saw her dance. King Herod said to the girl, ‘Ask me for anything that you want. I will give it to you.’" 
Mark6:23 He made a strong promise, ‘I will give you anything that you ask me to give to you. I will even give you half of everything that I rule over.’" 
Mark6:24 The girl went out and she said to her mother, ‘What should I ask him for?’ Her mother replied, ‘Ask for the head of John the Baptist.’" 
Mark6:24 The girl went out and she said to her mother, ‘What should I ask him for?’ Her mother replied, ‘Ask for the head of John the Baptist.’" 
Mark6:25 The girl went quickly to Herod and she said to him, ‘I want the head of John the Baptist. Put it on a plate! Do it now!’" 
Mark6:25 The girl went quickly to Herod and she said to him, ‘I want the head of John the Baptist. Put it on a plate! Do it now!’" 
Mark6:26 Then Herod felt very sad. Because he had made a special promise, he did not want to refuse her. All his visitors had heard him." 
Mark6:27 So immediately, the king sent a soldier to go to John. The king told the soldier that he must bring John's head. So the soldier went to the prison and he cut off John's head." 
Mark6:27 So immediately, the king sent a soldier to go to John. The king told the soldier that he must bring John's head. So the soldier went to the prison and he cut off John's head." 
Mark6:28 Then he brought it back on a plate. He gave it to the girl, and she gave it to her mother." 
Mark6:29 People told John's disciples about what had happened. So they went to the prison. They took away John's body and they buried it. 
Mark6:29 People told John's disciples about what had happened. So they went to the prison. They took away John's body and they buried it. 
Mark6:30 The apostles all came to Jesus. They told him about all the things that they had done. And they told him what they had taught. 
Mark6:31 Many people were coming to Jesus and then going away. Jesus and his disciples were too busy even to eat. So Jesus said to them, ‘Come with me to a place where there are no other people. We should be alone together. Then we can rest for a short time.’" 
Mark6:32 So they left all the people behind. They went away in a boat together to a quiet place. 
Mark6:33 But many people saw that they were leaving the town. Those people recognized them. So the people ran out from all the towns around there. They went on land and reached the place before Jesus and the disciples. 
Mark6:34 Jesus got out of the boat and he saw a large crowd of people. He felt sorry for them. He thought to himself, ‘These people are like sheep that have no shepherd to take care of them.’ So he began to teach them many things." 
Mark6:35 When it was almost evening time, Jesus' disciples came and said to him, ‘We are in a place where there are no houses. Soon it will be dark." 
Mark6:36 The people do not have anything to eat. So send them away now. Tell them to go to the farms and villages that are near here. Then they can buy some food for themselves to eat.’ 
Mark6:37 Jesus replied, ‘You should give them some food to eat.’ But the disciples said, ‘We cannot go to buy bread for all these people. A man must work for eight months to get the 200 coins that we would need for that. We cannot get enough food to give to these people.’" 
Mark6:38 Jesus asked them, ‘How many loaves of bread do you have? Go and see.’ When they had looked, they told Jesus, ‘We have five loaves and two fish.’" 
Mark6:39 Then Jesus told all the people to sit down on the green grass. He wanted them to sit in large groups. 
Mark6:40 So the people sat down in groups. Each group had 50 or 100 people in it. 
Mark6:41 Then Jesus took the five loaves of bread and the two fish. He looked up to heaven and he thanked God for the food. Then he broke the bread into pieces. He gave the pieces of bread to the disciples, and they gave the bread to the people. Jesus also broke the two fish into pieces for all the people." 
Mark6:42 Everyone ate and they all had enough food. They were not hungry any more. 
Mark6:43 Jesus' disciples then picked up all the bits of food that people had not eaten. They filled 12 baskets with little bits of bread and fish. 
Mark6:44 There were 5,000 men in the crowd that ate the food there." 
Mark6:45 Immediately after this, Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Get into the boat and sail across the lake to Bethsaida.’ Jesus said that he would first send the crowd away. Then he would also leave." 
Mark6:46 So he said ‘goodbye’ to the crowd. Then he went up on a mountain to pray. 
Mark6:47 That evening, the boat with the disciples in it was in the middle of the lake. Jesus was still alone on the land." 
Mark6:48 But he could see his disciples. They were trying to make the boat move along. But it was very difficult for them because the wind was blowing in the other direction. Then, when it was nearly dawn, Jesus walked on the water towards his disciples. He seemed to be going on past them." 
Mark6:49 But they saw that he was walking on the water. They thought, ‘It is a spirit!’ And they screamed loudly." 
Mark6:50 They all saw Jesus and they were very afraid. But immediately, Jesus said to them, ‘Be brave. It is I. Do not be afraid.’" 
Mark6:51 Then Jesus got into the boat to be with them. The strong wind stopped. The disciples were completely surprised about what had happened. 
Mark6:52 They did not understand what Jesus had done with the loaves of bread. They were not ready to learn. 
Mark6:53 They sailed across the lake. They reached the shore at Gennesaret and they tied the boat there. 
Mark6:54 When they got out of the boat, the people recognized Jesus immediately." 
Mark6:55 They went to tell everyone who lived in places near there. They brought sick people to Jesus. They carried those people to him on mats. Whenever they knew where Jesus was, they brought sick people to him there." 
Mark6:56 Jesus went to villages, towns and farms. Everywhere that he went, they brought sick people to the market places. The sick people asked Jesus for help. They wanted to touch even the edge of his coat. Every sick person who touched him became well." 
Mark7:1 A group of Pharisees and some teachers of God's Law came from Jerusalem to talk with Jesus. 
Mark7:2 They had been watching Jesus' disciples. Some of the disciples did not wash their hands before they ate a meal. That is to say, they did not wash them in the right way." 
Mark7:3 (The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat food until they have washed their hands carefully. They do this because of what their leaders taught them. 
Mark7:4 When they come from the market place, they always wash themselves carefully. Unless they do this, they do not eat anything. Their leaders also gave them rules about how they should wash cups, pots and metal bowls.)" 
Mark7:5 The Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law said to Jesus, ‘Your disciples do not obey the things that our leaders taught many years ago. Your disciples have not washed their hands in the right way. They are eating their food with unclean hands. That is not right.’" 
Mark7:6 Jesus said to them, ‘You are hypocrites! What God's prophet Isaiah wrote about you long ago is true: God says, “These people say good things about me, but they do not really want to obey me." 
Mark7:7 They say that I am great. But what they say has no purpose. They teach their own rules, which I did not give to them.” ’" 
Mark7:8 Jesus then said, ‘You have stopped obeying God. Instead you obey the ideas that men teach." 
Mark7:9 You refuse to obey God's commands, because then you can keep your own ideas!" 
Mark7:10 For example, Moses wrote, “You must love your father and your mother. You must obey them.” Moses also said, “A person should die if he insults his father or his mother.”" 
Mark7:11 But you teach that a person may say to his father or to his mother, “I would have given gifts to help you. But I cannot do that, because I have given them to God instead.”" 
Mark7:12 If he says that, you let him refuse to help his father or his mother." 
Mark7:13 This shows that you have not obeyed what God says is right. Instead, you have obeyed the ideas that you received from your leaders many years ago. And you do many other things like that.’" 
Mark7:14 Jesus asked the crowd of people to come to him again. He said to them, ‘Listen to me, all of you, so that you can understand these things." 
Mark7:15 People do not become unclean because of things that go into their bodies from outside. They become unclean because of the things that come out from inside them. 
Mark7:16 [You have ears, so listen well to what I say.’]" 
Mark7:17 Jesus left the crowd of people and he went into a house. Then his disciples asked him to explain what he had taught. 
Mark7:18 Jesus said, ‘I am surprised that you, my disciples, do not understand what I am saying. You should understand that food will not make people unclean. Food goes into people's bodies from outside." 
Mark7:19 But food does not go into people's minds. It goes into their stomachs and then it passes out of their bodies.’ When Jesus said this, he was teaching that all foods are clean." 
Mark7:20 Jesus then said, ‘People become unclean because of what comes out from inside them, not because of what goes in." 
Mark7:21 Evil thoughts come out from people's minds. As a result they do wrong things. They have sex in wrong ways. They rob people. They murder people. 
Mark7:22 They have sex with another man's wife. They are greedy. They are cruel to other people. They deceive people. They live like wild animals. They are jealous of other people. They say bad things about other people. They are proud and foolish. 
Mark7:23 All these evil things begin inside people and then they come out. That is what makes them unclean.’ 
Mark7:24 Jesus left that place. He went away to the region around Tyre. He went into a house. He did not want anyone to know that he was there. But it was not possible to keep this a secret. 
Mark7:25 Immediately, a certain woman heard that Jesus was there. This woman had a daughter who had a bad spirit in her. The woman came to Jesus and she went down on her knees at his feet." 
Mark7:26 She was not a Jew. Her family was from Phoenicia in the country of Syria. She asked Jesus to make the bad spirit go out of her daughter. 
Mark7:27 Jesus said to the woman, ‘First, the children must eat all that they want. It is not right to take food from the children and then throw it to the dogs.’" 
Mark7:28 The woman replied, ‘Yes, Lord, that is true. But small pieces of food drop while the children eat. And the dogs under the table eat those pieces.’" 
Mark7:29 Then Jesus replied, ‘That is a good answer. Now the bad spirit has left your daughter. You may go.’" 
Mark7:30 The woman went to her home. She saw her child, who was lying on the bed. The bad spirit had left the girl." 
Mark7:31 Then Jesus went away from Tyre. He travelled through the city of Sidon. Then he went towards Lake Galilee. He was in the region called ‘The ten cities’. 
Mark7:32 Some people brought a man to Jesus. This man could not hear anything and he could not speak clearly. The people asked Jesus to put his hand on the man. 
Mark7:33 Jesus led the man away from the crowd. He put his fingers into the man's ears. Then he spat on his hands and touched the man's tongue. 
Mark7:34 Jesus looked up towards heaven. He cried with a low, sad sound. Then he said to the man, ‘Ephphatha!’ That means, ‘Become open!’" 
Mark7:35 When Jesus said this, the man started to hear. Also, his tongue was able to move properly so that he could speak clearly." 
Mark7:36 Jesus told the people that they must not tell anyone about this. But every time Jesus asked them not to say anything, they spoke even more about it." 
Mark7:37 The people were very surprised about everything that Jesus did. They said, ‘Jesus has done everything well. If people cannot hear, Jesus makes them able to hear. If people cannot speak, Jesus makes them able to speak.’" 
Mark8:1 At that time, another large crowd had come to hear Jesus. The people had nothing to eat. Jesus asked his disciples to come to him. He said to them," 
Mark8:2 ‘I feel sorry for this crowd. They have been here with me now for three days and they do not have any food. 
Mark8:3 I do not want to send them back to their homes while they are hungry. They might fall down during their journey because they are weak. Some of them have travelled a long way to come here.’ 
Mark8:4 The disciples said, ‘This place is far from any houses. We cannot get enough bread to feed all these people.’" 
Mark8:5 Jesus asked, ‘How many loaves of bread do you have?’ They replied, ‘We have seven loaves.’" 
Mark8:6 Jesus told the crowd that they should sit down on the ground. Then he took the seven loaves in his hands and he thanked God for them. Then he broke the bread and he gave the pieces to his disciples. The disciples gave the bread to the people. 
Mark8:7 The disciples also had a few small fish, so Jesus thanked God for these. Then he told his disciples to give the fish to the people too." 
Mark8:8 The people ate, and they all had enough food. After the people had eaten, there were still lots of small pieces of food. Jesus' disciples filled seven baskets with these pieces." 
Mark8:9 About 4,000 people were there and ate the food. Then Jesus sent the people away." 
Mark8:10 Immediately, he got into the boat with his disciples. They all returned to the region of Dalmanutha." 
Mark8:11 Some Pharisees came to Jesus. They began to argue with him. They wanted to see him do a miracle. That would show them that God had really sent him. 
Mark8:12 Jesus cried with a low, sad sound. He said, ‘People who are alive today want God to show them something powerful. But I tell you this. God will not do the powerful thing for them that they want.’" 
Mark8:13 Then Jesus left those Pharisees. He got back into the boat to go to the other side of the lake. 
Mark8:14 Jesus' disciples had forgotten to take bread with them. They only had one loaf in the boat. 
Mark8:15 Jesus said to them, ‘Be careful. Do not accept the yeast of the Pharisees or the yeast of Herod.’" 
Mark8:16 The disciples began to say to each other, ‘Jesus is saying that because we do not have any bread.’" 
Mark8:17 Jesus knew what they were talking about. So he said to them, ‘You should not be arguing about the bread. You still do not understand my teaching. You seem unable to learn." 
Mark8:18 You are like people who have eyes but they cannot see with them. You are like people who have ears but they cannot hear with them. 
Mark8:19 Remember that I used five loaves of bread to feed 5,000 men. How many baskets did you fill with pieces of food that were left?’ They replied, ‘There were 12 baskets.’" 
Mark8:20 Jesus asked them, ‘I also used seven loaves to feed 4,000 people. That time, how many baskets did you fill with pieces of food?’ They replied, ‘There were seven baskets.’" 
Mark8:21 Jesus said to them, ‘By now, you really should understand about me.’" 
Mark8:22 Jesus and his disciples came to a village called Bethsaida. Some people led a blind man to Jesus. They asked Jesus to touch the man. 
Mark8:23 Jesus took the blind man's hand and he led the man out of the village. Jesus put water from his own mouth on the man's eyes. And he put his hands on the man. Jesus asked him, ‘Can you see anything?’" 
Mark8:24 The man looked up. He said, ‘I can see people. But they look like trees that are walking about.’" 
Mark8:25 So Jesus put his hands on the man's eyes again. The man looked carefully and then his eyes were completely well. Now he could see everything clearly. 
Mark8:26 Jesus told the man that he must go back to his home. Jesus said, ‘Do not even go into the village.’" 
Mark8:27 Then Jesus and his disciples went to visit some villages. They were near to the town of Caesarea Philippi. On the way, Jesus asked his disciples, ‘When people talk about me, who do they say that I am?’" 
Mark8:28 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are one of God's prophets.’" 
Mark8:28 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are one of God's prophets.’" 
Mark8:29 Jesus asked them, ‘But what do you think? Who do you say that I am?’ Peter answered him, ‘You are the Messiah.’" 
Mark8:30 Then Jesus warned his disciples that they must not tell anyone about him. 
Mark8:31 Then Jesus began to teach his disciples about the things that must happen to the Son of Man. He would have to suffer in many ways. The important Jews, the leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law would turn against him. People would kill him. But after three days, he would become alive again." 
Mark8:32 What Jesus said was very clear. Then Peter took Jesus away from the other disciples. He began to tell Jesus that he must not say things like that. 
Mark8:33 Jesus turned round and he looked at his disciples. He said that Peter was not saying good things. He said to Peter, ‘ Satan, go away from me! Your thoughts do not come from God. Instead, you are thinking like people think.’" 
Mark8:34 Then Jesus asked the crowd and his disciples to come to him. He said to them, ‘A person who wants to come with me must not think about himself. He must decide that his own life is not important. He must be like someone who carries his own cross to go and die. Then he may come with me as my disciple." 
Mark8:35 Whoever wants to keep his own life safe will lose it. But whoever agrees to lose his life because of me and because of God's good news will have true life. 
Mark8:36 A person may get everything in the whole world for himself. But if he loses his life, it will not be any good for him." 
Mark8:37 There is nothing that a person can give to get back his life. 
Mark8:38 People who are living today have turned away from God. They are very bad. But you must not be ashamed of me or of my words. If you are, then the Son of Man will be ashamed of you. One day he will return and God's holy angels will be with him. He will have the bright glory of his Father. He will be ashamed of you on that day if you are ashamed of him now.’" 
Mark9:1 Jesus then said to them, ‘I tell you this. Some people who are standing here will see God begin to rule in his kingdom with great power. They will see that before they die.’" 
Mark9:2 Six days after that, Jesus asked Peter, James and John to go with him. Jesus led them up a high mountain, where they were alone together. Peter, James and John saw Jesus change in front of them." 
Mark9:2 Six days after that, Jesus asked Peter, James and John to go with him. Jesus led them up a high mountain, where they were alone together. Peter, James and John saw Jesus change in front of them." 
Mark9:2 Six days after that, Jesus asked Peter, James and John to go with him. Jesus led them up a high mountain, where they were alone together. Peter, James and John saw Jesus change in front of them." 
Mark9:3 His clothes became very white. They were shining. Nobody on earth could wash them and make them as white as that. 
Mark9:4 Then Elijah and Moses appeared in front of the three disciples. Elijah and Moses were talking with Jesus. 
Mark9:5 So Peter said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, it is good that we are here. Please let us build three huts. One hut will be for you. One hut will be for Moses. And one hut will be for Elijah.’" 
Mark9:6 Peter did not really know what to say. That was because the three disciples were very afraid. 
Mark9:7 Then a cloud appeared and it covered them all. A voice spoke from the cloud and it said, ‘This is my Son, and I love him. Listen to him.’" 
Mark9:8 At that moment, the three disciples looked around. They saw that nobody else was there now. Only Jesus was there with them." 
Mark9:9 While they were walking down the mountain, Jesus said to the three disciples, ‘You must not tell anyone now about the things that you have just seen. One day the Son of Man will become alive again after his death. Then you can tell people about these things.’" 
Mark9:10 The three disciples kept these words secret. But they talked together about the words, ‘become alive again after his death’. They asked each other, ‘What does this mean?’" 
Mark9:11 Then the three disciples asked Jesus, ‘Why do the teachers of God's Law say that God's prophet Elijah must return first, before the Messiah comes?’" 
Mark9:12 Jesus said to them, ‘Elijah does come first. He makes everything ready. But what is written in the Bible about the Son of Man? It says that people will cause him to suffer a lot. They will think that he is nothing." 
Mark9:13 But I tell you that Elijah has already come. People did to him everything that they wanted to do. The Bible already showed that those things would happen to him.’ 
Mark9:14 They reached the place where the other disciples were. They saw that there was a large crowd with them. Some teachers of God's Law were arguing with the disciples. 
Mark9:15 The people in the crowd saw Jesus and immediately they were very surprised. They ran to say ‘hello’ to Jesus. 
Mark9:16 Jesus asked his disciples, ‘What are you arguing about with the teachers of God's Law?’" 
Mark9:17 A man in the crowd answered. He said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, I brought my son to you. He is not able to speak because he has a bad spirit in him." 
Mark9:18 When the bad spirit takes hold of him, it throws him to the ground. Water comes out of his mouth and he bites his teeth together. Then his body stops moving. I asked your disciples to send the spirit out of him. But they were not able to do it.’" 
Mark9:19 Jesus replied, ‘You people today still do not believe in God. I have been with you for a long time and still you do not believe. It is difficult for me to be patient with you. Bring the boy to me.’" 
Mark9:20 So the people brought the boy to Jesus. When the bad spirit saw Jesus, it immediately caused the boy's body to shake strongly. The boy fell onto the ground and he rolled about. Water was coming from his mouth." 
Mark9:21 Jesus asked the boy's father, ‘How long has he been like this?’ The father replied, ‘He has been like this since he was a small boy." 
Mark9:22 Often the spirit has caused him to fall into the fire or into water. It is trying to kill him. Please be kind to us. If you can do anything, help us!’" 
Mark9:23 Jesus said to the father, ‘You should not say, “If you can do anything.” Everything is possible for those people who believe.’" 
Mark9:24 Immediately, the boy's father shouted, ‘Oh! I believe! Help me to believe more!’" 
Mark9:25 Jesus saw that the crowd of people was quickly becoming bigger. So he told the bad spirit to stop. Jesus said to it, ‘Spirit, I am telling you that you must leave this boy. He cannot hear or speak because of you. I tell you to come out of him! You must never go into him again.’" 
Mark9:26 The spirit screamed. It caused the boy's body to shake many times. Then it came out of him. The boy seemed to be dead, so many people said, ‘He is dead.’" 
Mark9:27 But Jesus held the boy's hand and he helped the boy to stand up. 
Mark9:28 Jesus went into a house and the disciples were alone with him. Then they asked him, ‘Why could we not cause the bad spirit to leave the boy?’" 
Mark9:29 Jesus said to them, ‘You must pray. This kind of spirit will not leave a person unless you pray.’" 
Mark9:30 Jesus and his disciples left that place. They passed through Galilee. Jesus did not want anyone to know where he was. 
Mark9:31 That was because he was teaching his disciples. He told them, ‘Soon, they will give the Son of Man to powerful people. They will take him away and they will kill him. But three days after that, he will become alive again.’" 
Mark9:32 The disciples did not understand what Jesus had said. But they were afraid to ask him. 
Mark9:33 Jesus and his disciples arrived at Capernaum. When they were in the house, Jesus asked them, ‘What were you arguing about on the way?’" 
Mark9:34 But they did not say anything. They did not want to tell Jesus why they were arguing. On the way, they had argued about who was the most important disciple." 
Mark9:35 Jesus sat down. He told the 12 apostles to come to him. Then he said to them, ‘If you want to be the leader, make yourself less important than everyone else. You must become the servant of everyone.’" 
Mark9:36 Then Jesus brought a child to stand in the middle of them all. He took hold of the child and he said to the disciples," 
Mark9:37 ‘If someone accepts a child like this because of me, then that person also accepts me. If he accepts me, then he is not only accepting me. He is also accepting my Father God, who sent me.’" 
Mark9:38 John said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, we saw a man who was causing bad spirits to go out of people. He was using your authority to do it. But he is not in our group. So we told him that he must not do it.’" 
Mark9:38 John said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, we saw a man who was causing bad spirits to go out of people. He was using your authority to do it. But he is not in our group. So we told him that he must not do it.’" 
Mark9:39 Jesus said, ‘Do not tell him to stop. That man is using my authority to do powerful things. Someone who does that cannot immediately say anything bad about me." 
Mark9:40 If someone is not against us, he is working to help us." 
Mark9:41 Somebody may give you a cup of water because you are a servant of the Messiah. I tell you this. God will bless that person and he will never lose God's help. 
Mark9:42 A person who believes in me may not seem important. But you should never make that person do wrong things. Do not do that! It would be better if someone tied a big stone around your neck and then he threw you into the sea! 
Mark9:43 If your hand causes you to do wrong things, you should cut it off. You will only have one hand, but you can have God's true life. It will be much worse for you if you keep both your hands and go to hell. There, the fire always burns and never stops." 
Mark9:44  
Mark9:45 If your foot causes you to do wrong things, you should cut it off. You will only have one foot, but you can have God's true life. It will be much worse if you keep your two feet and go to hell." 
Mark9:46  
Mark9:47 If your eye causes you to do wrong things, then you should remove it. Then you will only have one eye, but you can go into the kingdom of God. It will be much worse if you keep both your eyes and God throws you into hell." 
Mark9:48 “In hell, the worms do not die, and the fire never goes out.” " 
Mark9:49 God will put fire on everybody, as people put salt on food." 
Mark9:50 Salt is good. But if your salt is not salty any more, you cannot make it salty again. You should be like good salt and love each other. Do not cause trouble among yourselves.’" 
Mark10:1 Then Jesus left that place. He went to the part of Judea that is on the east side of the Jordan River. Crowds of people came to him again. So he taught them, as he usually did." 
Mark10:1 Then Jesus left that place. He went to the part of Judea that is on the east side of the Jordan River. Crowds of people came to him again. So he taught them, as he usually did." 
Mark10:2 Some Pharisees came to Jesus. They wanted to find out how he would answer their question. They asked him, ‘Can a man send his wife away, so that she is no longer his wife? Is it right for him to do that?’" 
Mark10:3 Jesus replied with a question: ‘What did Moses say was right for you?’ 
Mark10:4 The Pharisees said, ‘Moses said that a man could write a letter to say that he and his wife are no longer married. Then the man can send the woman away.’" 
Mark10:5 Jesus said to them, ‘Moses made this rule for you because you did not want to obey God." 
Mark10:6 But at the start, when God made the world, he made people male and female." 
Mark10:7 That is the reason that a man leaves his father and his mother. Then God joins him and his wife together. 
Mark10:8 The man and the woman become like one body. They are not two separate people any longer. They have come together as one person. 
Mark10:9 God has put them together to be husband and wife. So nobody should cause them to be separate.’ 
Mark10:10 When Jesus went into the house, the disciples asked him about these things again." 
Mark10:11 So Jesus said to them, ‘A man must not send his wife away and then marry another woman. If he does that, he has not been faithful to his wife. It is the same as if he had sex with another man's wife." 
Mark10:12 In the same way, a woman must not leave her husband and then marry another man. She also has done a wrong thing. It is the same as if she had sex with another woman's husband.’" 
Mark10:13 People were bringing little children to Jesus. They wanted him to put his hands on each child's head. The disciples told the people that they should not do that. 
Mark10:14 But when Jesus saw this, he was angry. He said to them, ‘Do not stop the children. Let them come to me. People must become like these children so that God can rule their lives. That is what the kingdom of God is like." 
Mark10:15 I tell you this. A person must become like a little child for God to rule in his life. If he does not become like a child, he will not come into the kingdom of God.’" 
Mark10:16 Then Jesus took hold of the children. He put his hands on each of them and he asked God to bless them. 
Mark10:17 While Jesus was starting on his journey, a man ran to him. He went down on his knees in front of Jesus. He said to Jesus, ‘Good teacher, what must I do so that I can live with God for ever?’" 
Mark10:18 Jesus said to him, ‘Why do you say that I am good? Only God is good. Nobody else." 
Mark10:19 You know God's commands: “Do not kill anyone. Do not have sex with anyone who is not your wife. Do not rob anyone. Do not say things that are not true about people. Do not take things that are not yours. Love your father and your mother, and obey them.” ’" 
Mark10:20 The man replied, ‘Teacher, I have obeyed all these laws since I was a young man.’" 
Mark10:21 Jesus looked at the man and Jesus loved him. Jesus said to him, ‘There is still just one thing that you must do. Go now. Sell everything that you have. Then give the money to poor people. If you do that, you will have many valuable things in heaven. Then come back and be my disciple.’" 
Mark10:22 When the man heard that, his face became sad. He was a very rich man. Because of that, he went away and he was very sad." 
Mark10:23 Jesus looked round and he said to his disciples, ‘It is very difficult for rich people to let God rule in their lives.’" 
Mark10:24 They were very surprised about Jesus' words. Jesus spoke again to them: ‘My friends, it is very difficult for anyone to let God rule in their life." 
Mark10:25 The hole in a needle is very small. A camel cannot go through it! But it is even more difficult for a rich person to let God rule in their life.’ 
Mark10:26 Then Jesus' disciples were even more surprised. They said to each other, ‘So perhaps God will not save anyone!’" 
Mark10:27 Jesus looked at them and he replied, ‘For people, it really is impossible. But God can do it. God can do everything.’" 
Mark10:28 Peter said to Jesus, ‘Look! We have left everything that we had. Now we are your disciples.’" 
Mark10:29 Jesus said, ‘I tell you this. Some people have left their homes. Or they may have left their brothers or sisters. Or they may have left their mother or their father. Or they may have left their children or their fields. They have done that because of me. And they have done it because of God's good news." 
Mark10:30 Now, in this world, God will give those people many more things than they have left behind, even 100 times more! Yes, they will receive houses and brothers and sisters. They will receive mothers and children and fields. As well as all this, people will be against them. But in the future world, they will live for ever with God." 
Mark10:31 But many people who are very important now will not be important then. And people who are not important now will become very important then.’ 
Mark10:32 Jesus and his disciples were walking along the road towards Jerusalem. Jesus was walking in front of them all. The disciples were very upset. Other people who were following behind them were afraid. Jesus again took his 12 apostles away from the other people. He began to tell them what would happen to him soon. 
Mark10:33 He said to them, ‘Listen! We are going to Jerusalem. There, someone will give the Son of Man to the leaders of the priests and to the teachers of God's Law. These Jewish leaders will decide that he must die. Then they will put him under the power of people who are not Jews." 
Mark10:34 Those people will laugh at him. They will spit at him. They will hit him with whips. Then they will kill him. But after three days, he will become alive again.’" 
Mark10:35 James and John, who were Zebedee's sons, came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘Teacher, we want to ask you for something. Please do it for us.’" 
Mark10:35 James and John, who were Zebedee's sons, came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘Teacher, we want to ask you for something. Please do it for us.’" 
Mark10:35 James and John, who were Zebedee's sons, came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘Teacher, we want to ask you for something. Please do it for us.’" 
Mark10:36 Jesus asked them, ‘What do you want me to do for you?’" 
Mark10:37 They said to him, ‘When you are king, we want to rule with you. One of us will sit at your right side and the other one at your left side.’" 
Mark10:38 Jesus said to them, ‘You do not understand what you are asking for. I will have much pain and trouble. Are you ready to have the same pain? Are you ready to die in the way that I will die?’" 
Mark10:39 James and John replied, ‘Yes, we can do all that.’ Jesus said to them, ‘Yes, that is true. You will have pain like mine. And people will want to kill you like me." 
Mark10:39 James and John replied, ‘Yes, we can do all that.’ Jesus said to them, ‘Yes, that is true. You will have pain like mine. And people will want to kill you like me." 
Mark10:39 James and John replied, ‘Yes, we can do all that.’ Jesus said to them, ‘Yes, that is true. You will have pain like mine. And people will want to kill you like me." 
Mark10:40 But I cannot promise that you will sit at my right side or at my left side. God has chosen the people who will sit there. He has prepared the places for those people.’ 
Mark10:41 When the other ten disciples heard about this, they were angry with James and John." 
Mark10:41 When the other ten disciples heard about this, they were angry with James and John." 
Mark10:41 When the other ten disciples heard about this, they were angry with James and John." 
Mark10:42 But Jesus told the disciples to come to him. He said to them, ‘You know the things that rulers of other countries do. They show that they have much power over their people. The leaders of those countries use great authority over their people." 
Mark10:43 But you should not be like that. Instead, the person who wants to be great among you must become like your servant." 
Mark10:44 Anyone who wants to be the most important person among you must work hard for you all. 
Mark10:45 Even the Son of Man came to earth to be a servant to other people. He did not come here to have servants who must work for him. No, he came to die so that many people can be free.’" 
Mark10:46 Then Jesus and his disciples arrived in Jericho. When they were leaving the city again, a large crowd of people followed them. A blind man was sitting at the side of the road. He was asking people to give him money. His name was Bartimaeus and he was the son of Timaeus." 
Mark10:47 Somebody told Bartimaeus that Jesus from Nazareth was walking past him. So he began to shout. He said, ‘Jesus, Son of David! Please be kind to me and help me!’" 
Mark10:48 Many people were angry with Bartimaeus. They told him that he should be quiet. But he shouted even louder than before, ‘Son of David! Please help me!’" 
Mark10:49 Jesus stopped. He said to the people, ‘Tell the man to come here.’ So the people said to the blind man, ‘Be brave! Stand up. Jesus is asking you to go to him.’" 
Mark10:50 Bartimaeus threw away his coat. He jumped up and he came to Jesus. 
Mark10:51 Then Jesus said to Bartimaeus, ‘What do you want me to do for you?’ The blind man said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, I want to see again.’" 
Mark10:52 Jesus said to him. ‘Go. You are well now, because you believed in me.’ Immediately, Bartimaeus could see again. He followed Jesus along the road." 
Mark11:1 Jesus and his disciples were coming near to Jerusalem. They were almost at the villages called Bethphage and Bethany, on the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two of his disciples to go further." 
Mark11:2 He said to them, ‘Go into the village that is in front of you. When you arrive there, you will immediately see a young donkey. Someone has tied it there. Nobody has yet ridden on it. Undo the rope and bring the donkey here to me." 
Mark11:3 Someone may ask you, “Why are you doing this?” Then say, “The Master needs the donkey. He will send it back here soon.” ’" 
Mark11:4 So the two disciples went into the village. They found the young donkey in the street. Someone had tied it outside, at a door. So the disciples undid the rope." 
Mark11:5 Some people were standing there. They asked the two disciples, ‘What are you doing? Why are you undoing the donkey's rope?’" 
Mark11:6 The disciples answered them. They repeated what Jesus had told them to say. The people then let them take the donkey away. 
Mark11:7 The two disciples brought the young donkey to Jesus. They put their coats on its back and Jesus sat on it. 
Mark11:8 Many people then put their coats down on the road. Other people cut branches down from trees in the fields. They put the branches down on the road as well. 
Mark11:9 Many people went in front of Jesus, and other people followed him. All of them were shouting, ‘We praise God! May the Lord God bless the king who comes with his authority!" 
Mark11:10 Great will be the kingdom of King David, our ancestor! We praise God above!’" 
Mark11:11 Jesus went into Jerusalem and he went to the temple. He looked at everything there. It was late in the day, so he then went out of the city to Bethany. The 12 apostles went with him." 
Mark11:12 On the next day, they left Bethany. Jesus was hungry." 
Mark11:13 He saw a fig tree which was a long way away. There were leaves on it. So he went to see if it had fruit on it. When he reached it, he found nothing except leaves. That was because it was not the right season for it to have fruit." 
Mark11:14 So Jesus said to the tree, ‘Nobody will ever eat your fruit again.’ And his disciples heard what he said." 
Mark11:15 When they arrived back in Jerusalem, Jesus went into the yard of the temple. People were buying and selling things there. Jesus began to make them all leave that place. Some men were changing coins there for people. He pushed over their tables. And he pushed over the seats of the men who sold birds." 
Mark11:16 Jesus would not let anyone carry things through that place. 
Mark11:17 While he was teaching the people, Jesus said, ‘The Bible says, “God's house will be a place where people from all countries pray.” But you have changed it into a place where robbers meet.’" 
Mark11:18 The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law heard this. And they thought about how they could kill Jesus. They were afraid of him because all the crowd were listening to him. And the things that he taught caused the crowd to be very surprised. 
Mark11:19 When it was evening, Jesus and his disciples went out of the city again." 
Mark11:20 The next morning, Jesus and his disciples passed the fig tree. They saw that it was completely dead." 
Mark11:21 Peter remembered what Jesus had said. So he said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, look at that fig tree. You said that it should die, and it has died.’" 
Mark11:22 So Jesus said to them, ‘You must believe in God." 
Mark11:23 I tell you this. A person could say to this mountain, “Move and throw yourself into the sea.” Then it will happen like he says. But he must not let other ideas come into his mind. He must really believe that those things will happen. If he does believe it, God will do those things for him." 
Mark11:24 So I tell you this. When you pray to ask God for anything, believe in him. Believe that you have received that thing. Then you will have whatever you have asked for." 
Mark11:25 But when you stand up to pray, first you must forgive other people. If anyone has done something bad against you, forgive that person. If you do forgive them, your Father in heaven will forgive you. God will forgive you for the wrong things that you have done.’" 
Mark11:26  
Mark11:27 Jesus and his disciples arrived again in Jerusalem. Jesus was walking about in the yard at the temple. The leaders of the priests, the teachers of God's Law and the important Jews came to him." 
Mark11:28 They asked him, ‘What authority do you have to do these things? Who gave you the authority to do them?’" 
Mark11:29 Jesus replied, ‘I will ask you one question and you should answer me. If you do that, then I will answer your question. I will tell you what authority I have to do these things." 
Mark11:30 John baptized people. Did God give him authority to do this? Or did men tell him to do it? Now, tell me your answer.’" 
Mark11:30 John baptized people. Did God give him authority to do this? Or did men tell him to do it? Now, tell me your answer.’" 
Mark11:31 Then the Jewish leaders talked to each other. They said, ‘We could say that God gave John his authority. But, if we say that, Jesus will say to us, “Then you should have believed John.”" 
Mark11:31 Then the Jewish leaders talked to each other. They said, ‘We could say that God gave John his authority. But, if we say that, Jesus will say to us, “Then you should have believed John.”" 
Mark11:32 But we cannot say that John received his authority from people.’ The Jewish leaders were afraid of the crowd. All the people thought that John was a prophet from God. 
Mark11:32 But we cannot say that John received his authority from people.’ The Jewish leaders were afraid of the crowd. All the people thought that John was a prophet from God. 
Mark11:33 So the Jewish leaders answered Jesus: ‘We do not know who gave John his authority.’ So Jesus said to them, ‘You will not answer my question. So I will not tell you what authority I have to do these things.’" 
Mark11:33 So the Jewish leaders answered Jesus: ‘We do not know who gave John his authority.’ So Jesus said to them, ‘You will not answer my question. So I will not tell you what authority I have to do these things.’" 
Mark12:1 Then Jesus began to speak again to the important Jews. He told them stories. He said, ‘There was a man who planted vines to grow grapes. He built a wall around the vineyard. He dug a hole in the ground for a winepress to make wine. He also built a tower to watch over the garden. He found some farmers who would work in the vineyard for him. Then he went away to another country." 
Mark12:2 At the time for the harvest, the man sent a servant to speak to the farmers. He wanted them to give him his fruit from the vineyard." 
Mark12:3 But the farmers took hold of the servant and they hit him with sticks. They sent him away with nothing. 
Mark12:4 So the man sent another servant to the farmers. They also hit this servant on the head, and they did other bad things to him." 
Mark12:5 The man then sent another servant, but the farmers killed this servant. He sent many other servants to them. The farmers hit some of these servants with sticks and they killed other servants." 
Mark12:6 The man had only one person that he could still send. This was his own son. The man loved him very much. So, last of all, he sent his son to the farmers. He thought, “The farmers will surely respect my son.”" 
Mark12:7 But those farmers said to each other, “This is the master's own son. The farm will belong to him when his father dies. We should kill the son and then the farm will belong to us.”" 
Mark12:8 So the farmers took the son and they killed him. Then they threw his dead body out of the vineyard.’ 
Mark12:9 Jesus then asked, ‘What will the master of the garden do then? I tell you, he will come and he will kill those farmers. Then he will give the vineyard to other people to take care of it." 
Mark12:10 I am sure that you have read these words in the Bible: “The builders refused to use a certain stone. They thought that it had no value. But now that stone has become the most important stone at the corner of the building. 
Mark12:11 The Lord God did this. And we can see that he did something great.” ’ 
Mark12:12 The Jewish leaders knew that Jesus had told this story about them. They were the wicked farmers in the story. So they wanted to take hold of Jesus. But they were afraid of the crowd. So they left him and they went away. 
Mark12:13 Then the leaders sent some Pharisees to Jesus. They also sent some men who were friends of King Herod. They wanted Jesus to say something wrong. Then they could cause trouble for him. 
Mark12:14 These men came to Jesus and they said, ‘Teacher, we know that you only say true things. It does not matter to you what other people think. If someone is important, you do not change your answers to make them happy. You really do teach us what God wants us to do. Tell us, should we pay our taxes to the Roman ruler, Caesar? Is it right to give that money to him, or not?’" 
Mark12:15 Jesus knew that those men were not honest. So he said, ‘You are asking that question to cause trouble for me. Now, bring me a coin. I want to see it.’" 
Mark12:16 So they brought a coin to him. Jesus asked them, ‘Whose picture is on this coin? Whose name is on it?’ They replied, ‘It is Caesar's picture and Caesar's name.’" 
Mark12:17 Jesus then said to them, ‘So you should give to Caesar the things that belong to Caesar. And give to God the things that belong to God.’ When they heard Jesus' answer, they were very surprised." 
Mark12:18 Also, some Sadducees came to Jesus. Sadducees do not believe that anyone becomes alive again after they die. They wanted to ask Jesus a question." 
Mark12:19 They said to him, ‘Teacher, Moses wrote these things for us in the Bible: If a man dies without children, his brother must marry the man's widow. Then their children will be called the children of the brother who died." 
Mark12:20 But once there were seven brothers. The oldest brother married a woman. But he died before they had any children. 
Mark12:21 So the second brother married her. He also died without children. Then the third brother married this woman. 
Mark12:22 And the same thing happened to all seven brothers. They all died but they had no children. After all this, the woman also died." 
Mark12:23 You teach that at some time dead people will become alive again. On that day, whose wife will that woman be? She had married all seven of those brothers.’" 
Mark12:24 Jesus said to the Sadducees, ‘You are completely wrong. This is because you do not know the Bible. And you do not know how powerful God is." 
Mark12:25 All people who have died will become alive again one day. But then men and women will not marry. They will not have husbands or wives. Instead, they will be like the angels in heaven." 
Mark12:26 But God does make dead people alive again! You have read what Moses wrote about the bush in the wilderness. There, God said to Moses, “I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.”" 
Mark12:27 God is not the God of people who are dead. He is the God of people who are alive. So you see, you are completely wrong.’" 
Mark12:28 One of the teachers of God's Law came near to the group of people. He heard Jesus speaking with the leaders. The teacher knew that Jesus had answered them well. So then the teacher asked Jesus, ‘Which command is the most important among God's laws?’" 
Mark12:29 Jesus replied, ‘This is the most important command: “Listen, Israel's people! The Lord alone is our God. There is no other Lord." 
Mark12:30 Love the Lord your God completely. Love him with all your mind and with all your strength. Love him in everything that you think and you do.” 
Mark12:31 The second most important command is this: “You should love other people as much as you love yourself.” No other commands are as important as these two.’ 
Mark12:32 The teacher of God's Law said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, you have answered well. You are right to say that the Lord is the only God. And there is no other God except him." 
Mark12:33 We must love him completely, with all our mind and with all our strength. We must also love other people as much as we love ourselves. This is more important than all the gifts or animals that we could offer to God.’" 
Mark12:34 Jesus heard that the man had answered well. So Jesus said to him, ‘You are almost ready for God to rule in your life.’ After that, everybody was afraid to ask Jesus any more questions." 
Mark12:35 Jesus was teaching people in the yard at the temple. He said, ‘The teachers of God's Law say that the Messiah is King David's son. What do you think about that?" 
Mark12:36 The Holy Spirit caused David himself to say: “The Lord God said to my Lord: Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies. Then you will be able to put your feet on them.” 
Mark12:37 In these words, David himself calls the Messiah his Lord. So can you really say that the Messiah is David's son?’ The large crowd liked to listen to the things that Jesus was saying. It made them happy." 
Mark12:38 As Jesus was teaching the people, he said, ‘Be careful not to do the same as the teachers of God's Law. They want people to think that they are important. So they walk about in beautiful long clothes. They like people to praise them in the market place." 
Mark12:39 They want to sit in the best seats in the meeting places. They choose the most important places at special meals. 
Mark12:40 But these men take things away from women after their husbands have died, even their houses. Then they pray for a long time so that other people will praise them. Because they do these things, God will punish those men much more than other people.’" 
Mark12:41 Many people were giving their gifts for the temple. There was a box for money there. People threw their coins into it. Jesus sat near the box and he watched them. Many rich people put a lot of money into the box. 
Mark12:42 But then a woman came there. She was a widow and she was very poor. She put two small coins that had only a little value into the box. 
Mark12:43 Jesus asked his disciples to come to him. He said to them, ‘I tell you this. This poor woman has put a better gift into the box than all the other people have put in there." 
Mark12:44 All those rich people have plenty of money. They only put a small part of that into the box. But this woman has almost nothing. She put in all the money that she had. That was the money that she needed to live.’ 
Mark13:1 Then Jesus left the temple. While he was leaving, one of his disciples said to him, ‘Teacher, look at these great buildings! The stones in the walls of the temple are really great!’" 
Mark13:2 Jesus said to him, ‘Yes, look at all these large buildings! But I tell you, enemies will completely destroy them. Not even one stone will remain on top of another stone.’" 
Mark13:3 After that, Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives. He could look across the valley at the temple. Peter, James, John and Andrew went together to talk with him alone." 
Mark13:3 After that, Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives. He could look across the valley at the temple. Peter, James, John and Andrew went together to talk with him alone." 
Mark13:3 After that, Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives. He could look across the valley at the temple. Peter, James, John and Andrew went together to talk with him alone." 
Mark13:4 They said to Jesus, ‘Please tell us when all these things will happen. What will show us that they will soon happen?’" 
Mark13:5 Jesus began to say to them, ‘Be careful! Some people will tell you things that are not true. Do not believe those people." 
Mark13:6 Many people will say that they have come on my behalf. They will say, “I am the Messiah!” and they will deceive many people." 
Mark13:7 You will hear about wars. And there will be reports about wars in other places. Do not be afraid. Those things must happen, but that is not yet the end of everything." 
Mark13:8 People in one country will attack the people in another country. Kings and their armies will fight against other kings and their armies. The ground will shake in many different places. In some places, people will be hungry, with no food. Those things are like the first pains that a mother has before her baby is born." 
Mark13:9 So be careful! People will be against you. They will take you to stand in front of their leaders. They will punish you with whips in their meeting places. They will take you to stand in front of kings and rulers. This will happen because you are my disciples. You will tell them the good news about me. 
Mark13:10 Yes, you must first tell the good news about me to people in every country." 
Mark13:11 When people take you to their leaders to show that you have done bad things, do not be afraid. Do not worry about what you should say. You should say the words that God gives you at that time. You will not be speaking your own words. Those words will come from the Holy Spirit." 
Mark13:12 At that time, a man will let people kill his own brother. A father will let people kill his own child. Children will be against their parents. They will even ask people to kill their parents." 
Mark13:13 All people will hate you because you are my disciples. But God will save the person who remains strong until the end. 
Mark13:14 There will be a time when you will see in the temple a disgusting thing that causes trouble. You will see it in a place where it should not be. (When you read this, you must understand what it means.) At that time, people in Judea must run away to the hills to hide." 
Mark13:14 There will be a time when you will see in the temple a disgusting thing that causes trouble. You will see it in a place where it should not be. (When you read this, you must understand what it means.) At that time, people in Judea must run away to the hills to hide." 
Mark13:15 A person who is on the roof of his house must not go down into the house. He must not stop to get anything from his home. 
Mark13:16 A person who is outside in his field must not go back to his home. He must not return even to get his coat. 
Mark13:17 That will be a bad time for women who are soon to have a baby. It will also be a bad time for those women who have little babies. 
Mark13:18 You must pray to God that this time of trouble will not happen in winter. 
Mark13:19 Very bad troubles will happen to people at that time and cause them a lot of pain. Nothing as bad has ever happened before, since God created the world. Nothing as bad will ever happen again." 
Mark13:20 The Lord God will cause those days of great trouble to come to an end. If he did not do that, there would be nobody still alive. But God will cause those days to be not too many. He will do that to help the people that he has chosen." 
Mark13:21 At that time, someone may say to you, “Look, here is the Messiah!” Or they may say, “Look, he is there!” If they say that, do not believe them." 
Mark13:22 Some people will even say, “I am the Messiah.” Other people will say, “I am a prophet from God.” But their words will be false. They will do strange and powerful things for people to see. If possible, they would even deceive the people that God has chosen." 
Mark13:23 So watch out! I have told you about all these things before they happen. 
Mark13:24 Then, after all these bad things have happened, the sun will become dark. The moon will not shine any more." 
Mark13:25 Stars will fall out of the sky. And the powerful things in the sky will shake. 
Mark13:26 Then people will see the Son of Man. He will come in the clouds. He will have great power and bright glory. 
Mark13:27 Then he will send his angels. They will go in every direction, to every part of the earth and to every part of the sky. They will bring together all the people that God has chosen." 
Mark13:28 Here is a lesson for you to learn about fig trees. When the new branches on a fig tree start to grow, the leaves appear. Then you know that the summer will begin soon." 
Mark13:29 In the same way, you will see these strange things happening. Then you will know that the Son of Man will come very soon. He will be like someone at the door who is ready to come in." 
Mark13:30 I tell you this. The people who are alive now will not all die until all these things happen. 
Mark13:31 One day, the earth and the sky will have an end. But my words will be there for ever." 
Mark13:32 Nobody knows the day or the hour when all these things will happen. Only God the Father knows when they will happen. The angels who are in heaven do not know. Even the Son does not know. 
Mark13:33 Watch carefully! Keep awake! You do not know the time when these things will happen. 
Mark13:34 It is like when a man begins a journey. Before the master leaves his house, he gives authority to his servants. He tells each servant about the work that he should do. Then he tells the servant at the door to watch for his master's return." 
Mark13:35 So you must watch carefully. You do not know when the master of the house will come back. He might arrive in the evening, or in the middle of the night. Or he might arrive early in the morning, or just before the sun rises." 
Mark13:36 When he arrives, he may surprise you. He may even find you asleep!" 
Mark13:37 I am saying this to you. I am also saying this to everyone else. Always be ready!’ 
Mark14:1 It was now two days before the Passover festival. It was the time when Jews eat flat bread which has no yeast in it. The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law wanted to kill Jesus. But they wanted to take hold of him secretly. So they tried to decide how they could do that. 
Mark14:2 They said to each other, ‘We do not want to do it during the festival. If we do that, the people will be angry. Then they may fight against us.’" 
Mark14:3 Then Jesus went to Bethany, and he visited Simon at his house. At one time, Simon had had a bad skin disease. While Jesus was eating a meal there, a woman came into the house. She brought a small stone jar that contained expensive oil with a very nice smell. They used nard to make it. The woman broke the jar to open it. Then she poured the oil over Jesus' head." 
Mark14:4 But some people became angry. They said to each other, ‘This woman should not have wasted the oil." 
Mark14:5 She could have sold it and she could have given the money to poor people. She could have sold it for more than 300 silver coins. A man would have to work for a year to get that much money.’ So they spoke angrily to the woman. 
Mark14:6 But Jesus said, ‘Do not speak to her like that! Do not cause trouble for her. She has done a good thing to me." 
Mark14:7 You will always have poor people with you. You can help them at any time that you want. But you will not always have me with you. 
Mark14:8 This woman did what she was able to do. She poured oil over my body. So now, my body will be ready for people to bury me." 
Mark14:9 I tell you this. Everywhere in the world, people will speak about God's good news. At the same time, they will also tell people about the good thing that this woman has done. And so they will remember her.’" 
Mark14:10 Then Judas Iscariot went to the leaders of the priests. He said that he would help them to take hold of Jesus. (Judas was one of Jesus' 12 apostles.) 
Mark14:11 The leaders of the priests were very happy about this. They promised to give Judas some money. Then Judas waited for the right moment to help them to take hold of Jesus. 
Mark14:12 The first day of the festival when the Jews eat flat bread arrived. On this day, each family kills a lamb for the Passover meal. Jesus' disciples said to him, ‘We will go to prepare the Passover meal for you. Where do you want us to do that?’" 
Mark14:13 So Jesus sent two disciples to prepare the meal. He said to them, ‘Go into the city. A man who is carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him." 
Mark14:14 He will go to a house. You must say to the master of that house, “The Teacher sends this message to you: Where is the room for visitors? I will eat the Passover meal there with my disciples.”" 
Mark14:15 Then the man will show you a large room upstairs. The room will have in it all the things that you will need. You should prepare the Passover meal for us there.’ 
Mark14:16 Then the two disciples left and they went into the city. They found everything as Jesus had told them. So they prepared the Passover meal there. 
Mark14:17 When it was evening, Jesus arrived with the 12 apostles." 
Mark14:18 While they were eating the meal, Jesus said, ‘I tell you this. One of you will help my enemies to take hold of me. It is someone who is eating this meal with me.’" 
Mark14:19 The disciples became very sad. Each one of them said to Jesus, ‘Surely you do not mean me, do you?’" 
Mark14:20 Jesus said to them, ‘It is one of you 12 apostles. That man is eating from the same dish as I am." 
Mark14:21 The Son of Man must die in the way that the Bible says. But it will be very bad for the man who gives me to my enemies. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.’ 
Mark14:22 While Jesus and his disciples were eating, he took a loaf of bread. He thanked God for it. Then he broke the bread into pieces. He gave some of it to each of his disciples. He said to them, ‘Take this bread and eat it. This is my body.’" 
Mark14:23 Then Jesus took a cup. He thanked God for the wine in the cup. Then he gave the cup to them and they all drank from it. 
Mark14:24 Jesus said to them, ‘This is my blood that shows God's agreement with his people. When I die, my blood will pour out of my body. In that way God will save many people." 
Mark14:25 I tell you this. I will not drink wine again until God rules in his kingdom. Then it will be new wine.’ 
Mark14:26 Then Jesus and his disciples sang a song to praise God. Then they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Mark14:27 Then Jesus said to the disciples, ‘All of you will turn away from me. It will happen as the Bible says: God says, “I will kill the shepherd who leads the sheep. Then the sheep will run away in different directions.” ’" 
Mark14:28 Jesus then said, ‘But after that happens, I will become alive again. Then I will go to Galilee, and you will meet me there.’" 
Mark14:29 Peter said to Jesus, ‘Even if everyone else runs away, I will not leave you.’" 
Mark14:30 Jesus replied, ‘I tell you this. Even tonight, you will say that you do not know me. You will say that three times before the cockerel sings for the second time in the morning.’" 
Mark14:31 But Peter said very strongly, ‘I will die with you if I need to. But I will never say that I do not know you.’ All the other disciples said the same thing." 
Mark14:32 Then they arrived at a garden called Gethsemane. Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Sit here while I pray.’" 
Mark14:33 Jesus took Peter, James and John with him. He started to feel very sad and upset." 
Mark14:33 Jesus took Peter, James and John with him. He started to feel very sad and upset." 
Mark14:33 Jesus took Peter, James and John with him. He started to feel very sad and upset." 
Mark14:34 He said to them, ‘I am very sad. I feel as if I could die because I feel so sad. Wait here and stay awake.’" 
Mark14:35 Jesus went a short way beyond them. He went down on the ground. He prayed that, if possible, God would save him from this time of trouble." 
Mark14:36 He said, ‘Abba, my Father, you can do all things. Please take this great pain away from me. But I do not ask you to do what I want. Do what you want to do.’" 
Mark14:37 Jesus returned to his three disciples. Now they were sleeping. He said to Peter, ‘Simon, you are asleep! You could not stay awake for even one hour!" 
Mark14:38 You must keep awake and you must pray. Then you will not want to do something wrong. You really want to do the right thing, but your body is weak.’" 
Mark14:39 Jesus went away again and he prayed in the same words. 
Mark14:40 Then Jesus returned again to Peter, James and John. He saw that they were sleeping. They could not keep their eyes open. They did not know what to say to him." 
Mark14:40 Then Jesus returned again to Peter, James and John. He saw that they were sleeping. They could not keep their eyes open. They did not know what to say to him." 
Mark14:40 Then Jesus returned again to Peter, James and John. He saw that they were sleeping. They could not keep their eyes open. They did not know what to say to him." 
Mark14:41 Then Jesus returned a third time to the disciples. He said to them, ‘You should not still be sleeping and resting. That is enough! The moment has arrived. Look! Someone will now give me, the Son of Man, to my enemies." 
Mark14:42 Stand up, we will go now. Look! The man who will give me to my enemies is here.’" 
Mark14:43 Jesus was still speaking when, immediately, Judas arrived. He was one of Jesus' 12 apostles. A crowd came with him. They were carrying swords and heavy sticks. The leaders of the priests, the teachers of God's Law and the important Jews had sent these men." 
Mark14:44 Before this, Judas had told these men, ‘I will kiss one of the men. You must take hold of that man. Lead him away and do not let him go.’" 
Mark14:45 When they arrived, Judas went immediately to Jesus. He said to Jesus, ‘Teacher.’ Then he kissed Jesus in a friendly way." 
Mark14:46 So the men took hold of Jesus to lead him away. 
Mark14:47 But someone who was standing there took hold of his sword. He hit the servant of the leader of the priests with it and he cut off the servant's ear. 
Mark14:48 Then Jesus spoke to the crowd. He said, ‘You have come out here with swords and heavy sticks to take hold of me. Do you really think that I am a dangerous robber?" 
Mark14:49 I was with you every day when I was teaching people in the yard of the temple. You did not try to take hold of me then. But this must happen in the way that the Bible says it would happen.’ 
Mark14:50 Then all Jesus' disciples left him and they ran away. 
Mark14:51 A certain young man was following Jesus. He was wearing only one piece of linen cloth to cover himself. The men tried to take hold of this young man. 
Mark14:52 But the young man left the piece of cloth behind and he ran away. So when he ran away, he was not wearing anything." 
Mark14:53 The men took Jesus to the house of the most important priest. All the leaders of the priests met together there with the important Jews and with the teachers of God's Law. 
Mark14:54 Peter followed Jesus into the yard of Caiaphas's house. But he did not go near Jesus. He sat down in the yard with the guards who worked in the temple. He made himself warm by the fire. 
Mark14:55 The leaders of the priests and all the Jewish leaders wanted to punish Jesus with death. So they tried to find some people who would say things against Jesus. But they did not find anyone who could help them. 
Mark14:56 Many people said things against Jesus that were not true. But they did not agree with each other in what they said. 
Mark14:57 Then some men stood up and they said something false against Jesus. 
Mark14:58 They said, ‘We heard Jesus say, “I will destroy the temple, which men have built. In three days I will build another house for God. It will not be people who build this new house.” ’" 
Mark14:59 Even then, these people who were speaking against Jesus did not say the same thing." 
Mark14:60 Then Caiaphas stood up in front of everyone. He said to Jesus, ‘You must reply now to what these men have said against you. Are the things that they are saying true?’" 
Mark14:61 But Jesus did not reply. He did not say anything. So again, Caiaphas asked Jesus, ‘Are you the Messiah? Are you the Son of God?’" 
Mark14:62 Jesus replied, ‘I am. And you will all see the Son of Man. He will be sitting in the most important place at the right side of the Most Powerful God. You will see him coming to earth. He will be riding on the clouds in the sky.’" 
Mark14:63 Then Caiaphas tore his clothes to show that he was angry. He said, ‘We do not need anyone else to speak against Jesus." 
Mark14:64 You have heard the bad words that he has spoken against God. Do you think that he is guilty?’ Everyone agreed that Jesus deserved to die. 
Mark14:65 Then some of the men began to spit on Jesus. They covered his eyes with a cloth and they hit him many times with their fists. They said, ‘Show us that you are a prophet! Tell us who hit you!’ Then the guards took hold of Jesus and they beat him." 
Mark14:66 Peter was still sitting outside in the yard. One of the young women who was a servant of the most important priest came there. 
Mark14:67 She saw Peter, who was making himself warm by the fire. She looked at him and she said, ‘You also were a friend of Jesus, the man from Nazareth.’" 
Mark14:68 Peter replied, ‘That is not true! I do not even know what you are talking about!’ Then Peter went out to the gate of the yard. At that moment a cockerel sang." 
Mark14:69 The young woman watched him, and again she said to the other people there, ‘He is one of the men who were friends of Jesus.’" 
Mark14:70 But Peter again said that it was not true. After a little time, the other people who were standing there said to Peter, ‘We know you are from Galilee. So we are sure that you are one of those men.’" 
Mark14:71 Then Peter began to speak very strongly to them. He said, ‘I do not know this man that you are talking about. God will surely punish me if this is not true!’" 
Mark14:72 Immediately a cockerel sang loudly for a second time. Then Peter remembered what Jesus had said to him: ‘You will say three times that you do not know me. You will do it before the cockerel sings for the second time.’ When Peter thought about this, he wept very much." 
Mark15:1 Very early the next morning, all the Jewish leaders met together. The leaders of the priests met with the leaders, the teachers of God's Law, and the other important Jews. They decided what they would do. They tied Jesus' hands and feet and they took him to Pilate's house. They put him under Pilate's authority." 
Mark15:2 Pilate asked Jesus, ‘Are you the king of the Jews?’ Jesus replied, ‘You have said it.’" 
Mark15:3 Then the leaders of the priests told Pilate that Jesus had done many bad things. 
Mark15:4 So Pilate asked him again, ‘What is your answer? You should say something! Listen! They are saying that you have done many bad things.’" 
Mark15:5 But Jesus still did not reply to what the men were saying against him. Pilate was very surprised about that. 
Mark15:6 During the Passover festival each year, Pilate let one person go free out of the prison. The people had to ask him for the person that they wanted." 
Mark15:7 A man called Barabbas was in the prison at that time. He and some other men had fought against the Roman rulers. And they had killed someone when they were fighting. 
Mark15:8 The crowd came to Pilate. They asked him to do what he usually did at this time. 
Mark15:9 Pilate asked the people, ‘Do you want me to let the king of the Jews go free?’" 
Mark15:10 Pilate knew why the leaders of the priests had brought Jesus to him. They were jealous because people liked Jesus so much. 
Mark15:11 But the leaders of the priests talked strongly to the people. They said, ‘Ask Pilate to let Barabbas go free instead of Jesus.’" 
Mark15:12 Pilate asked the crowd again, ‘So what should I do to Jesus? He is the man that you call “the king of the Jews”.’" 
Mark15:13 The people shouted back to Pilate, ‘Kill him on a cross!’" 
Mark15:14 Pilate asked, ‘Why should I kill him? What bad things has he done?’ But the people shouted even louder, ‘Kill him on a cross!’" 
Mark15:15 Pilate decided to do what the crowd wanted. So he let Barabbas go free. He said to his soldiers, ‘Hit Jesus many times with a whip. Then take him and fix him on a cross to die.’" 
Mark15:16 So the soldiers took Jesus to the yard at the ruler's house. They told all the soldiers in their group to come there. 
Mark15:17 Then they put a purple coat on Jesus. They used some branches with thorns to make a crown for him. They put it on his head. 
Mark15:18 Then the soldiers began to laugh at Jesus. They said, ‘Hello, king of the Jews, you are great!’" 
Mark15:19 They took a stick and they hit him on the head with it many times. They spat on him. Then they went down on their knees in front of him. They told him how great he was. 
Mark15:20 When they had stopped laughing at him, they took the purple coat off him. They put his own clothes back on him. Then they took him away to the place where they would kill him on a cross." 
Mark15:21 When the soldiers were taking Jesus out to that place, a man called Simon was there. He was coming in from outside the city. He was from the city of Cyrene, and he was the father of Alexander and Rufus. The soldiers told Simon that he must carry Jesus' cross." 
Mark15:22 The soldiers took Jesus to a place that is called Golgotha. (Golgotha means ‘the place of a skull ’.) 
Mark15:23 They tried to give Jesus some wine to drink. They had mixed some medicine called myrrh into the wine. But Jesus would not drink it. 
Mark15:24 Then the soldiers fixed Jesus onto the cross. They took his clothes for themselves. They played a game with dice to decide which soldier would receive each of his clothes. 
Mark15:25 It was about nine o'clock in the morning when the soldiers fixed Jesus to the cross. 
Mark15:26 They put a notice there to show the reason why they were killing him. It said, ‘The King of the Jews’." 
Mark15:27 They also put two robbers on crosses near to Jesus. One robber was on Jesus' right side. The other robber was on his left side. 
Mark15:28  
Mark15:29 The people who walked near there insulted Jesus. They laughed at him and they said, ‘Oh! You said that you would destroy the temple. And you said that in three days you would build it again." 
Mark15:30 If you can really do that, save yourself. Come down from the cross!’" 
Mark15:31 The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law laughed at him. They said to each other, ‘This man saved other people, did he? But he cannot save his own life!" 
Mark15:32 If he is the Messiah, the king of Israel, he should come down from the cross now. Then we would see it and we would believe in him.’ The two men who were on the crosses next to Jesus also insulted him." 
Mark15:33 At midday, the whole country became dark for three hours." 
Mark15:34 At three o'clock in the afternoon, Jesus shouted loudly, ‘Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?’ That means, ‘My God, my God, why have you left me alone?’" 
Mark15:35 Some people who were standing near there heard him. They said to each other, ‘Look! He is shouting to Elijah.’" 
Mark15:36 One man ran to get a piece of cloth. He poured bitter wine on it, and he put it on the end of a stick. Then he lifted it up to Jesus so that he could drink the wine from it. The man said, ‘Wait! Now we will see if Elijah comes to take him down from the cross.’" 
Mark15:37 Then Jesus shouted loudly, and after that he died." 
Mark15:38 And the curtain inside the temple completely tore into two parts from the top down to the bottom. 
Mark15:39 The captain of the soldiers was standing there in front of Jesus. He saw how Jesus died. He said, ‘It must be true! This man really was the Son of God.’" 
Mark15:40 Some women were also there. They were watching these events from a long way away. Mary from Magdala was one of the women. Mary the mother of the younger James and Joses was also there. Salome was there too. 
Mark15:40 Some women were also there. They were watching these events from a long way away. Mary from Magdala was one of the women. Mary the mother of the younger James and Joses was also there. Salome was there too. 
Mark15:41 These women had travelled with Jesus when he was in Galilee and they had helped him. Many other women were also there near the cross. They had come to Jerusalem with Jesus. 
Mark15:42 It was Friday and the Jews were preparing for their day of rest the next day. 
Mark15:43 That evening, a man called Joseph went to see Pilate. Joseph was from a town called Arimathea. He was a good man and he belonged to the group of important Jewish leaders. He was waiting for the time when the kingdom of God would come. Joseph bravely asked Pilate for the dead body of Jesus to bury it." 
Mark15:44 Pilate was surprised that Jesus had already died. He asked the captain of the soldiers to come to him. He asked him if Jesus had already died. 
Mark15:45 The captain told Pilate that Jesus was already dead. So then Pilate let Joseph go and take Jesus' dead body. 
Mark15:46 Joseph bought a piece of linen cloth. He took Jesus' body down from the cross and he put the cloth around it. Then he put the body into a grave hole in a rock. After this, Joseph rolled a big stone across the front of the hole to shut it." 
Mark15:47 Mary from Magdala and Mary the mother of Joses were watching. They saw where Joseph had put Jesus' dead body. 
Mark16:1 After the day of rest had finished, the women bought some spices. They wanted to mix these with some oil to put on Jesus' body. These women were Mary from Magdala, Salome, and Mary the mother of James." 
Mark16:1 After the day of rest had finished, the women bought some spices. They wanted to mix these with some oil to put on Jesus' body. These women were Mary from Magdala, Salome, and Mary the mother of James." 
Mark16:2 They went out at dawn on the first day of the week, Sunday. They went to the grave in the rock where Joseph had put Jesus' dead body." 
Mark16:3 The women asked each other, ‘Who will roll away the heavy stone for us? It closes the entrance to the grave where they put Jesus' dead body.’" 
Mark16:4 Then they looked and they saw the stone. It was a very big stone. But someone had already rolled it away from the entrance. 
Mark16:5 When the women went into the grave hole, they saw a young man there. He was sitting in there on the right side and he wore bright white clothes. The women were very afraid." 
Mark16:6 The young man said to them, ‘Do not be afraid. You are looking for Jesus from Nazareth. The soldiers killed him on a cross, but he has become alive again. He is not here. Look! You can see the place where the men put him." 
Mark16:7 But now you must go to tell his disciples and Peter about this. Tell them, “Jesus is going to Galilee and you must also go there. You will see him there, just as he told you it would happen.” ’" 
Mark16:8 Then the women went out from the grave hole, and they ran away from that place. They were very upset and they had trouble in their minds. Because they were afraid, they did not say anything to anyone." 
Mark16:9 [Jesus became alive again early on the first day of the week. He appeared first to Mary from Magdala. Jesus had caused seven bad spirits to leave her. 
Mark16:10 She went to the people who had been with Jesus. They were all very sad and they were crying. 
Mark16:11 Mary told them that Jesus was alive. And she told them that she had seen him. But they did not believe it. 
Mark16:12 After these things had happened, Jesus appeared to two other disciples. They were walking away from Jerusalem to their village. It seemed to them that Jesus was different." 
Mark16:13 Those two disciples went and told all the other disciples. But the other disciples did not believe them. 
Mark16:14 After that, Jesus appeared to the 11 apostles while they were eating. He told them that they were wrong not to believe. They should have been ready to believe. People had seen that he was now alive again. But the disciples had not believed them." 
Mark16:15 Then Jesus said to them, ‘Go to all people everywhere in the world. Tell God's good news to everyone." 
Mark16:16 If a person believes in me, then you should baptize that person. And God will save that person. But if a person does not believe, God will judge that person to be guilty." 
Mark16:17 These miracles will happen when people believe in me. On my behalf, they will send bad spirits out of people. They will speak new languages." 
Mark16:18 If they pick up a snake, it will not hurt them. If they drink poison, it will not hurt them. They will put their hands on ill people and God will make those people well.’" 
Mark16:19 So, after the Lord Jesus had spoken to the disciples, God took him up into heaven. There he sat down at the right side of God." 
Mark16:20 The disciples went out everywhere. They told people God's good news. The Lord worked with them. He did powerful things to show that the message which they spoke was true.] 
Luke1:1 Many people have written about the things that have happened in our country. 
Luke1:2 Some people were present when these things started to happen. They saw everything that happened and they told us about it. They are the people who wrote down the good news for us. 
Luke1:3 I have checked the facts about what really happened. So now, I know about all the things that happened from the beginning. I am writing to make the facts clear to you, my great friend Theophilus." 
Luke1:4 People have already taught you about these things. Now you can be sure that they are true. 
Luke1:5 There was a man whose name was Zechariah. He lived when Herod was king of Judea. Zechariah was a priest and he belonged to a group of priests from the family of Abijah. He had a wife called Elizabeth. She also was a descendant of Aaron. 
Luke1:5 There was a man whose name was Zechariah. He lived when Herod was king of Judea. Zechariah was a priest and he belonged to a group of priests from the family of Abijah. He had a wife called Elizabeth. She also was a descendant of Aaron. 
Luke1:6 Zechariah and Elizabeth obeyed all God's commands and rules. God saw that they did what was right. They did not do wrong things. 
Luke1:7 But they had no children. Elizabeth could not give birth and they were both getting old. 
Luke1:8 One day, Zechariah's group of priests was working at the temple. He had a special job to do there." 
Luke1:9 The priests used lots to choose one of their group to go into the holy place in the temple. This time they chose Zechariah. His job was to burn incense there. 
Luke1:10 While Zechariah was burning the incense, many people were outside in the yard. They were praying to God." 
Luke1:11 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to Zechariah. The angel was standing at the right side of the incense altar. 
Luke1:12 When Zechariah saw the angel, he was very surprised and very afraid." 
Luke1:13 The angel said to him, ‘Zechariah, do not be afraid. God has heard what you prayed. He will give you what you asked for. Your wife Elizabeth will give birth to a baby boy. You will give him the name “John”." 
Luke1:13 The angel said to him, ‘Zechariah, do not be afraid. God has heard what you prayed. He will give you what you asked for. Your wife Elizabeth will give birth to a baby boy. You will give him the name “John”." 
Luke1:14 John will make you very happy. Many other people will also be very happy when he is born. 
Luke1:14 John will make you very happy. Many other people will also be very happy when he is born. 
Luke1:15 John will be a very important person who serves the Lord God. He must never drink anything with alcohol in it. From the time when he is born, the Holy Spirit will live in him." 
Luke1:15 John will be a very important person who serves the Lord God. He must never drink anything with alcohol in it. From the time when he is born, the Holy Spirit will live in him." 
Luke1:16 John will teach people in Israel to turn back to the Lord their God and obey him. 
Luke1:16 John will teach people in Israel to turn back to the Lord their God and obey him. 
Luke1:17 He will prepare the people for the Lord to come to them. The Holy Spirit will lead John as he led Elijah. John will do powerful things as Elijah did. He will help fathers to love their children. He will teach people who do not obey God. Then they will know what things are right. And they will do them. They will be ready when the Lord comes.’ 
Luke1:17 He will prepare the people for the Lord to come to them. The Holy Spirit will lead John as he led Elijah. John will do powerful things as Elijah did. He will help fathers to love their children. He will teach people who do not obey God. Then they will know what things are right. And they will do them. They will be ready when the Lord comes.’ 
Luke1:18 Zechariah asked the angel, ‘How can I be sure about this? You know that I am an old man. My wife is also old.’" 
Luke1:19 The angel answered, ‘I am called Gabriel. My place is to stand in front of God. I am always ready to work for God. He has sent me to speak to you. He told me that I should tell you this good news." 
Luke1:20 Now listen to me. Because you did not believe my message, you will not be able to speak. You will not speak again until the time when your son is born. My message will become true at the right time.’" 
Luke1:21 While this was happening, the people outside were waiting for Zechariah. They were thinking, ‘Why has Zechariah stayed for such a long time in the holy place? Why has he not come out yet?’" 
Luke1:22 When Zechariah did come out, he tried to talk to them. But he could not speak. So they knew that God had showed him something special in the holy place. Zechariah was moving his head and his hands about, to tell them what had happened. But still he could not speak." 
Luke1:23 When Zechariah had finished his work in the temple, he returned home." 
Luke1:24 Soon, a baby was growing inside his wife Elizabeth. She stayed in her house for five months." 
Luke1:25 She said, ‘The Lord God has now given me a baby. He has been kind to me. Because of this, other people cannot cause me to be ashamed.’" 
Luke1:26 When Elizabeth's baby had grown inside her for nearly six months, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth. Nazareth was a town in Galilee." 
Luke1:27 Gabriel went there to visit a young woman. Her name was Mary. She had never had sex with anyone. She had promised to marry a man called Joseph. He belonged to the family of King David. 
Luke1:28 Gabriel went to Mary and said, ‘Hello Mary. The Lord God loves you very much. He is very near to you.’" 
Luke1:29 Mary had a lot of trouble in her mind about Gabriel's message. She did not understand what he meant. 
Luke1:30 Then Gabriel said to her, ‘Do not be afraid, Mary. God has been kind to you." 
Luke1:31 Listen! A baby boy will grow inside you. When he is born, you will call him Jesus." 
Luke1:32 He will be great. People will call him the Son of the Most High God. The Lord God will make him rule as king, as his ancestor King David ruled." 
Luke1:33 He will rule over the descendants of Jacob for all time. His kingdom will continue for ever.’ 
Luke1:34 Mary asked, ‘How can this happen? I have never had sex with anyone.’" 
Luke1:35 Gabriel answered, ‘The Holy Spirit will come to you. The power of the Most High God will cover you like a shadow. So your child will be special to God. He will be called God's Son." 
Luke1:36 And listen! Your cousin, Elizabeth, is very old. People said that she could not have a baby. But she also will have a son. The baby has grown inside her now for nearly six months." 
Luke1:37 There is nothing that God cannot do.’ 
Luke1:38 Mary answered, ‘I am the servant of the Lord. I have heard what you have said. I want it to happen to me just like that.’ Then the angel left her." 
Luke1:39 After that, Mary prepared herself to travel. She hurried to a town in the hills of Judea." 
Luke1:39 After that, Mary prepared herself to travel. She hurried to a town in the hills of Judea." 
Luke1:40 When she arrived at the home of Zechariah, she said ‘hello’ to Elizabeth." 
Luke1:41 When Elizabeth heard Mary speak, she felt her baby move quickly inside her. The Holy Spirit filled her." 
Luke1:42 She spoke to Mary in a loud voice, ‘God has made you very happy. He has been good and kind to you more than to other women. He has also been good and kind to your baby." 
Luke1:43 You are the mother of my Lord and I am not an important person. So it is very good that you have visited me. 
Luke1:44 Listen! When I heard you say, “Hello” to me, my baby moved quickly inside me. He was very happy." 
Luke1:45 The Lord God has told you what will happen and you believed what he told you. Because of that, God has made you a happy person.’" 
Luke1:46 Then Mary said, ‘All of me wants to praise God and say, “ Lord, you are very good and great!”" 
Luke1:47 I thank God because he is the one who saves me. 
Luke1:48 I know that I am not an important person. God knows this, and he has been kind to me. Listen! From now on, all people will say that God has made me happy." 
Luke1:49 Yes, God has done great things for me. He is very powerful and strong. He is good in every way." 
Luke1:50 God is kind to people who respect and obey him. He will always be kind to people like that. 
Luke1:51 He has shown how strong he is to do great things. Some people think that they are very important. But he has chased them away in different directions. 
Luke1:52 Some people were ruling as kings. But he has taken their power away from them. He has given power to people who do not feel important. 
Luke1:53 He has fed hungry people with good things to eat. But he has sent rich people away with nothing. 
Luke1:54 God promised that he would be kind to his people, Israel. Now he has come to help them." 
Luke1:55 He made a promise to Abraham and to our other ancestors. Now he has done what he promised.’ 
Luke1:56 Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months. Then Mary returned to her home. 
Luke1:57 The time arrived for Elizabeth to have her baby. She gave birth to a son. 
Luke1:58 Her family and the people who lived near her heard about her baby. They knew that the Lord God had been very kind to her. They saw that she was happy. So they were happy too. 
Luke1:59 When the child was eight days old, people met together to circumcise him. They wanted to call the child Zechariah. This was the same name that his father had." 
Luke1:60 Elizabeth said, ‘No. His name will be John.’" 
Luke1:60 Elizabeth said, ‘No. His name will be John.’" 
Luke1:61 They replied, ‘But you do not have anyone in your family called John. That cannot be right.’" 
Luke1:61 They replied, ‘But you do not have anyone in your family called John. That cannot be right.’" 
Luke1:62 So they used their hands to make signs to the baby's father. They wanted to ask him what his son's name should be. 
Luke1:63 Zechariah asked for something to write on. He wrote, ‘His name is John.’ Everyone was very surprised at what he wrote." 
Luke1:63 Zechariah asked for something to write on. He wrote, ‘His name is John.’ Everyone was very surprised at what he wrote." 
Luke1:64 Immediately, Zechariah could speak again. He could speak easily. He began to praise God." 
Luke1:65 The people who lived near Zechariah and Elizabeth were all very surprised. They saw how great God was. Many people who lived in the hills of Judea also talked about all these things. 
Luke1:65 The people who lived near Zechariah and Elizabeth were all very surprised. They saw how great God was. Many people who lived in the hills of Judea also talked about all these things. 
Luke1:66 Everyone who heard about these things thought carefully about them. They asked each other, ‘When this child becomes a man, what will he be?’ They could see that the Lord God really was with him." 
Luke1:67 The Holy Spirit filled John's father, Zechariah, so that he spoke God's message:" 
Luke1:67 The Holy Spirit filled John's father, Zechariah, so that he spoke God's message:" 
Luke1:68 ‘ Praise the Lord God of Israel! He has come to save his people. He has come to make them free. 
Luke1:69 He has sent a very strong person to save us, a descendant of God's servant, King David." 
Luke1:70 Long ago, God promised that he would do this. He gave his own prophets this message to speak." 
Luke1:71 God promised to rescue us from our enemies. He will save us from everyone who hates us. 
Luke1:72 He promised to be kind to our ancestors. He will do the things that he promised in his holy covenant. 
Luke1:73 Yes, he will remember the strong promises that he spoke to Abraham." 
Luke1:74 God said, “I will keep you safe from your enemies. Then you can serve me and not be afraid." 
Luke1:75 You can live in a way that is good and right. You can do this all your lives.” ’ 
Luke1:76 Zechariah then spoke to his son, John: ‘You, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High God. You will go in front of the Lord to prepare a way for him." 
Luke1:76 Zechariah then spoke to his son, John: ‘You, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High God. You will go in front of the Lord to prepare a way for him." 
Luke1:77 You will tell God's people how God will save them. God will forgive them for the wrong things that they have done. 
Luke1:78 Our God will do this because he is very kind. He will send someone to us from heaven, to be like the sunrise for us." 
Luke1:79 He will bring light to people who do not know God. They are like people who are living in the dark. They are afraid to die. But the light will shine on them. God will show us how to live so that we have peace.’ 
Luke1:80 Zechariah's child grew. God made him strong in his mind. He went into the wilderness and he lived there for many years. Later, God sent him to Israel's people, to teach them." 
Luke2:1 At that time, Caesar Augustus made a law. He told his men to count everyone who lived in the countries that he ruled." 
Luke2:2 This was the first time that the Romans had made a list of everyone's names. Quirinius was the Roman ruler of Syria when it happened. 
Luke2:2 This was the first time that the Romans had made a list of everyone's names. Quirinius was the Roman ruler of Syria when it happened. 
Luke2:3 Everyone went to his own home town for the Romans to count them. 
Luke2:3 Everyone went to his own home town for the Romans to count them. 
Luke2:4 So Joseph went to his home town, Bethlehem. He was living in the town of Nazareth, in Galilee. Bethlehem was in Judea. King David had been born there, so Bethlehem was called the town of David. Joseph belonged to the family of David. That is why he went to Bethlehem." 
Luke2:4 So Joseph went to his home town, Bethlehem. He was living in the town of Nazareth, in Galilee. Bethlehem was in Judea. King David had been born there, so Bethlehem was called the town of David. Joseph belonged to the family of David. That is why he went to Bethlehem." 
Luke2:5 Joseph took Mary with him so that the Romans could count them. She went because she had promised to marry him. She was pregnant. 
Luke2:5 Joseph took Mary with him so that the Romans could count them. She went because she had promised to marry him. She was pregnant. 
Luke2:6 While they were in Bethlehem, the time came for her baby to be born." 
Luke2:7 This was her first baby, and it was a boy. She put cloths around him. Then she put him in an animal's food box. She did this because the rooms for visitors were full of people." 
Luke2:8 That night some shepherds were living out in the fields near Bethlehem. They were keeping their sheep safe. 
Luke2:9 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to them. A bright light from God shone all around them. That frightened them very much. 
Luke2:10 The angel said to them, ‘Do not be afraid. Listen! I bring you good news. This news will make everyone very happy." 
Luke2:11 Something happened today in the town of David. Someone special was born. He is the one who will save you. He is the Messiah. He is the Lord. 
Luke2:12 I will tell you how you will know this baby. You will find him with cloths around him. He is lying in an animal's food box.’ 
Luke2:13 At that moment, a great crowd of angels appeared. They were praising God. They said:" 
Luke2:14 ‘God is great! He lives in the highest place above. He will bless the people on earth who please him. They will have peace in their minds.’ 
Luke2:15 After that, the angels went away and returned to heaven. Then the shepherds said to each other, ‘We should leave the sheep and go to Bethlehem immediately! The Lord God has sent his angels to tell us what has happened. We want to see this baby.’" 
Luke2:16 So the shepherds went quickly to Bethlehem. When they got there, they found Mary and Joseph with the baby. The baby really was lying in a food box." 
Luke2:17 After they had seen the baby, they told everybody about him. They told them what the angel had said to them about him." 
Luke2:18 Many people heard what the shepherds said. The people were very surprised. 
Luke2:19 Mary remembered everything that the shepherds had said. She thought about it all for a long time. 
Luke2:20 The shepherds then went back to their sheep. As they went they praised God. They said, ‘How great you are! How good you are! Everything that the angel told us was true! We have heard good news. We have seen very special things!’" 
Luke2:21 When the baby was eight days old, it was time for the priest to circumcise him. His parents gave him the name ‘Jesus’. The angel had told Mary that they must give him that name. He told her that before she had the baby inside her." 
Luke2:22 Long ago, God gave Moses rules for his people to obey. One rule told people how to become clean after a baby was born. The time came for Mary and Joseph to do this. So they took the baby Jesus to the temple in Jerusalem to show him to the Lord." 
Luke2:23 This is the rule which the Lord God gave to his people: ‘The first male baby born to a woman belongs to me. So you must bring him to me. 
Luke2:24 When you do this, also bring two doves or two young pigeons as a sacrifice.’ So that is what Mary and Joseph did." 
Luke2:25 At this time, a man called Simeon was living in Jerusalem. He was a good man and he obeyed God. He had waited a long time to see the special person who would save Israel's people. The Holy Spirit was with him." 
Luke2:26 The Holy Spirit had told him, ‘You will not die yet. You know that the Lord God has promised to send his Messiah. You will see him before you die.’" 
Luke2:27 Now the day had come. The Holy Spirit told Simeon that he should go to the temple. Mary and Joseph were bringing the baby Jesus to the temple, as God's rule said." 
Luke2:28 Simeon went to them. He took Jesus and he held him in his arms. Then he thanked God. He said: 
Luke2:29 ‘Master, I am your servant. You have done what you promised to me. Now I can die with peace in my mind." 
Luke2:30 I have seen the person that you have sent to save your people. 
Luke2:31 You have sent him to the world and people everywhere will know about him. 
Luke2:32 He will bring light to people so that they can know you. He will show you to people of other nations. He will bring honour to your own people, the Israelites.’" 
Luke2:33 That is what Simeon said about Jesus. His message surprised Mary and Joseph very much. 
Luke2:34 Then Simeon asked God to be good and kind to Mary and to Joseph. After that, he spoke to Mary, the mother of Jesus. He said to her, ‘God has chosen this baby. He will cause many people in Israel to turn away from God. But many of them will turn to God because of him. He will be like a sign that points to God. But many people will speak against him." 
Luke2:35 This will show their secret thoughts about God. It will make you very sad, too. It will seem as if a sharp knife is cutting into you.’" 
Luke2:36 A very old woman called Anna was also there in the temple. She spoke messages that the Holy Spirit gave to her. Anna was the daughter of Phanuel, who belonged to the tribe of Asher. She had lived with her husband for seven years and then he had died." 
Luke2:37 After that, she had lived alone until she was 84 years old. Now she never left the temple. She stayed there day and night to worship God. She fasted and she prayed." 
Luke2:38 At that moment, Anna came to where Mary and Joseph were standing in the temple. When she saw the baby, she thanked God for him. Then she began to speak about him to other people there. Many people were waiting for God to make Jerusalem free. These were the people that she spoke to about the child, Jesus." 
Luke2:39 When Mary and Joseph had done everything that God's rules said, they returned home to the town of Nazareth in Galilee." 
Luke2:40 There the child grew up. God was kind to him and he became strong. He learned many things and he could understand them well. 
Luke2:41 Every year, Mary and Joseph went to Jerusalem for the Passover festival." 
Luke2:42 When Jesus was 12 years old, his parents took him with them to Jerusalem. They went as usual for the festival." 
Luke2:43 When the week finished, Mary and Joseph left Jerusalem to return home. But Jesus stayed behind and his parents did not know this." 
Luke2:44 They thought that he was with their group on the way home. They travelled for a whole day. Then they began to look for him among their family and friends. 
Luke2:45 They could not find him, so they went back to Jerusalem. They looked for him there." 
Luke2:46 After three days, they found him in the temple. He was sitting there among the teachers. He was listening to what they were saying. He was also asking them questions." 
Luke2:47 Everyone who heard Jesus was very surprised. He understood so many things and he could answer difficult questions. 
Luke2:48 When Jesus' parents saw him there, they were also very surprised. His mother said to him, ‘My son, why have you done this to us? Your father and I have looked everywhere for you. We have had a lot of trouble in our mind.’" 
Luke2:49 Jesus answered them, ‘You should not have needed to look for me. I must be in the place where my Father wants me to be. You should have known that.’" 
Luke2:50 But his parents did not understand what he was saying to them. 
Luke2:51 Then Jesus returned to Nazareth with them. He did what they wanted. His mother, Mary, was careful to remember all the special things that had happened. She thought about them a lot." 
Luke2:52 Jesus grew up into a man. He became strong and he could understand more and more things. God was pleased with him, and people were pleased with him too." 
Luke3:1 This report is about John, the son of Zechariah. It happened when Tiberius Caesar had been the Roman ruler for 15 years. Pontius Pilate was the Roman ruler of Judea. Herod had authority over the region of Galilee. Herod's brother Philip had authority over Iturea and Trachonitis. Lysanias had authority over Abilene." 
Luke3:1 This report is about John, the son of Zechariah. It happened when Tiberius Caesar had been the Roman ruler for 15 years. Pontius Pilate was the Roman ruler of Judea. Herod had authority over the region of Galilee. Herod's brother Philip had authority over Iturea and Trachonitis. Lysanias had authority over Abilene." 
Luke3:1 This report is about John, the son of Zechariah. It happened when Tiberius Caesar had been the Roman ruler for 15 years. Pontius Pilate was the Roman ruler of Judea. Herod had authority over the region of Galilee. Herod's brother Philip had authority over Iturea and Trachonitis. Lysanias had authority over Abilene." 
Luke3:2 At this time, the leaders of the priests were Annas and Caiaphas. John was living in the wilderness. While he was there, God spoke to him." 
Luke3:2 At this time, the leaders of the priests were Annas and Caiaphas. John was living in the wilderness. While he was there, God spoke to him." 
Luke3:3 John went to many places near the Jordan River and he spoke a message from God. He taught people, ‘You have done many wrong things. You must turn away from them and change how you live. Then God will forgive you and I will baptize you.’" 
Luke3:3 John went to many places near the Jordan River and he spoke a message from God. He taught people, ‘You have done many wrong things. You must turn away from them and change how you live. Then God will forgive you and I will baptize you.’" 
Luke3:4 The prophet Isaiah wrote this message from God in his book: ‘Somebody's voice is shouting in the wilderness, “The Lord will come soon, so prepare a way for him. Make the paths straight for him." 
Luke3:5 Fill in every valley. Make every mountain and hill flat. Take away every bend so that the road is straight. Take away all the rocks so that the road is flat. 
Luke3:6 Then everyone will see how God can save them.” ’ 
Luke3:7 Crowds of people were going out into the wilderness. They wanted John to baptize them. He told them, ‘You are like dangerous snakes! God is angry. You are trying to run away from him. But he will soon punish people like you." 
Luke3:7 Crowds of people were going out into the wilderness. They wanted John to baptize them. He told them, ‘You are like dangerous snakes! God is angry. You are trying to run away from him. But he will soon punish people like you." 
Luke3:8 You have to show that you are sorry. Change how you live. Stop doing things that God does not like. Do not begin to say to yourselves, “We are descendants of Abraham. God will surely not punish us.” Listen! God can take these stones and make children for Abraham out of them!" 
Luke3:9 You are like trees that have bad fruit. God has an axe ready to use. He will cut down every tree that does not make good fruit. He will throw those trees into the fire.’ 
Luke3:10 People in the crowd asked John, ‘So what should we do?’" 
Luke3:10 People in the crowd asked John, ‘So what should we do?’" 
Luke3:11 John answered, ‘If you have two shirts, give one away. Give it to someone who does not have even one shirt. If you have some food, give some of it away. Give it to someone who has no food.’" 
Luke3:11 John answered, ‘If you have two shirts, give one away. Give it to someone who does not have even one shirt. If you have some food, give some of it away. Give it to someone who has no food.’" 
Luke3:12 In the crowd, there were men who took taxes from people. These men also wanted John to baptize them. They asked him, ‘Teacher, what should we do?’" 
Luke3:12 In the crowd, there were men who took taxes from people. These men also wanted John to baptize them. They asked him, ‘Teacher, what should we do?’" 
Luke3:13 John told them, ‘You must take the right amount of money from people. You must not take more money than the rules say you should take.’" 
Luke3:13 John told them, ‘You must take the right amount of money from people. You must not take more money than the rules say you should take.’" 
Luke3:14 Then some soldiers asked John, ‘What about us? What should we do?’ John replied, ‘Do not rob people of their money. Do not say that a person is guilty if he has not done anything wrong. You must not take money for yourself in that way. You should be happy with the money that you receive for your work.’" 
Luke3:14 Then some soldiers asked John, ‘What about us? What should we do?’ John replied, ‘Do not rob people of their money. Do not say that a person is guilty if he has not done anything wrong. You must not take money for yourself in that way. You should be happy with the money that you receive for your work.’" 
Luke3:15 At this time people were thinking, ‘Is John the Messiah that God has promised to send to us?’ They were all hoping that he might be." 
Luke3:15 At this time people were thinking, ‘Is John the Messiah that God has promised to send to us?’ They were all hoping that he might be." 
Luke3:16 John said to the people, ‘I baptize you with water. But someone else is coming soon. He is much greater than I am. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him. This man will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire." 
Luke3:16 John said to the people, ‘I baptize you with water. But someone else is coming soon. He is much greater than I am. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him. This man will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire." 
Luke3:17 He is like a farmer who brings the wheat home from his field. He uses a special tool to throw the wheat up in the air. He does this to make the wheat seeds separate from the chaff. Then he cleans his yard. He carefully stores all the seeds to keep them safe. But he burns everything else in a great fire that nobody can put out.’ 
Luke3:18 John said many more things to the people. He was telling them the good news about how God could change their lives. 
Luke3:18 John said many more things to the people. He was telling them the good news about how God could change their lives. 
Luke3:19 One day John told Herod, the ruler, that it was wrong for him to marry Herodias. Before that, she had been the wife of Herod's brother. John also told Herod that he had done many other bad things." 
Luke3:19 One day John told Herod, the ruler, that it was wrong for him to marry Herodias. Before that, she had been the wife of Herod's brother. John also told Herod that he had done many other bad things." 
Luke3:20 So then Herod did an even worse thing. He locked John up in prison. 
Luke3:20 So then Herod did an even worse thing. He locked John up in prison. 
Luke3:21 While John was still baptizing all the people, he also baptized Jesus. While Jesus was praying, the sky opened." 
Luke3:21 While John was still baptizing all the people, he also baptized Jesus. While Jesus was praying, the sky opened." 
Luke3:22 The Holy Spirit came down onto Jesus. When he came down like that, he looked like a dove. Then a voice spoke from heaven, ‘You are my Son and I love you. You make me very happy.’" 
Luke3:23 Jesus was about 30 years old when he began his work. People thought that he was the son of Joseph. Joseph was from the family of Heli. 
Luke3:24 Heli was from the family of Matthat. Matthat was from the family of Levi. Levi was from the family of Melchi. Melchi was from the family of Jannai. Jannai was from the family of Joseph. 
Luke3:25 Joseph was from the family of Mattathias. Mattathias was from the family of Amos. Amos was from the family of Nahum. Nahum was from the family of Esli. Esli was from the family of Naggai. 
Luke3:26 Naggai was from the family of Maath. Maath was from the family of Mattathias. Mattathias was from the family of Semein. Semein was from the family of Josech. Josech was from the family of Joda. 
Luke3:27 Joda was from the family of Joanan. Joanan was from the family of Rhesa. Rhesa was from the family of Zerubbabel. Zerubbabel was from the family of Shealtiel. Shealtiel was from the family of Neri. 
Luke3:28 Neri was from the family of Melchi. Melchi was from the family of Addi. Addi was from the family of Cosam. Cosam was from the family of Elmadam. Elmadam was from the family of Er. 
Luke3:29 Er was from the family of Joshua. Joshua was from the family of Eliezer. Eliezer was from the family of Jorim. Jorim was from the family of Matthat. Matthat was from the family of Levi. 
Luke3:30 Levi was from the family of Simeon. Simeon was from the family of Judah. Judah was from the family of Joseph. Joseph was from the family of Jonam. Jonam was from the family of Eliakim. 
Luke3:31 Eliakim was from the family of Melea. Melea was from the family of Menna. Menna was from the family of Mattatha. Mattatha was from the family of Nathan. Nathan was from the family of David. 
Luke3:32 David was from the family of Jesse. Jesse was from the family of Obed. Obed was from the family of Boaz. Boaz was from the family of Salmon. Salmon was from the family of Nahshon. 
Luke3:33 Nahshon was from the family of Amminadab. Amminadab was from the family of Ram. Ram was from the family of Hezron. Hezron was from the family of Perez. Perez was from the family of Judah. 
Luke3:34 Judah was from the family of Jacob. Jacob was from the family of Isaac. Isaac was from the family of Abraham. Abraham was from the family of Terah. Terah was from the family of Nahor. 
Luke3:35 Nahor was from the family of Serug. Serug was from the family of Reu. Reu was from the family of Peleg. Peleg was from the family of Eber. Eber was from the family of Shelah. 
Luke3:36 Shelah was from the family of Cainan. Cainan was from the family of Arphaxad. Arphaxad was from the family of Shem. Shem was from the family of Noah. Noah was from the family of Lamech. 
Luke3:37 Lamech was from the family of Methuselah. Methuselah was from the family of Enoch. Enoch was from the family of Jared. Jared was from the family of Mahalalel. Mahalalel was from the family of Cainan. 
Luke3:38 Cainan was from the family of Enosh. Enosh was from the family of Seth. Seth was from the family of Adam. Adam was from God. 
Luke4:1 Then Jesus returned from the Jordan River. He was full of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit led him into the wilderness. 
Luke4:2 He stayed there for 40 days and he did not eat anything. During this time the devil tried to cause Jesus to do wrong things. At the end of 40 days, Jesus was very hungry." 
Luke4:3 The devil said to Jesus, ‘If you are the Son of God, speak to this stone. Tell it to become bread.’" 
Luke4:4 Jesus replied, ‘No! The Bible says that food alone cannot cause people to live.’" 
Luke4:5 After that, the devil led Jesus up to a high place. In one moment, he showed Jesus all the kingdoms in the whole world." 
Luke4:6 He said to Jesus, ‘I will let you rule the whole world. I will give you power over all these things. That power all belongs to me. So I can give it to anyone that I choose." 
Luke4:7 You must bend down low and worship me. Then I will give you power over the whole world.’ 
Luke4:8 Jesus replied, ‘No! The Bible says, “Worship the Lord, your God. He is the only one that you should serve.” ’" 
Luke4:9 The devil now took Jesus to Jerusalem. He took him to stand on the highest part of the temple. Then he said to Jesus, ‘If you are the Son of God, jump down from here to the ground." 
Luke4:10 You know that the Bible says: “God will tell his angels to keep you safe. 
Luke4:11 They will hold you safely in their hands. They will not let you hurt your foot on a stone.” ’ 
Luke4:12 Jesus replied, ‘No! The Bible says, “Do not test the Lord your God, to see what he will do.” ’" 
Luke4:13 In those ways, the devil tried to make Jesus do many wrong things. When he had finished this, he left Jesus alone. He waited for another chance." 
Luke4:14 Then Jesus returned to Galilee. The Holy Spirit continued to give him power. Everyone who lived near there heard the news about him. 
Luke4:15 He taught people in the Jewish meeting places. Everyone said good things about him. 
Luke4:16 Jesus went to Nazareth, the town where he had grown up. On the Jewish day of rest, he went to their meeting place. This was what he usually did. He stood up to read aloud from the Bible." 
Luke4:17 They gave him the scroll that had the messages of God's prophet Isaiah. Jesus opened the scroll. He found the place where Isaiah wrote: 
Luke4:18 ‘The Spirit of the Lord God is on me. He has chosen me to tell good news to poor people. He has sent me to tell people who are in prison, “You can go free!” He has sent me to tell blind people, “See again!” He has sent me to let people who are like slaves become free." 
Luke4:19 He has sent me to say, “This is the year when the Lord God will be kind to his people.” ’" 
Luke4:20 When Jesus had read this to the people, he closed the scroll. He gave it back to an officer of the meeting place. Then he sat down to teach the people. Everyone in the meeting place was looking carefully at him." 
Luke4:21 Jesus said to them, ‘Today this message has become true. It has happened while you were listening.’" 
Luke4:22 Everyone was talking about Jesus. They were surprised at the good way in which he spoke. They said to each other, ‘We know that he is only Joseph's son.’" 
Luke4:23 Jesus then said to them, ‘Now you will tell me the proverb, “Doctor, make yourself well!” You will also say, “We have heard that you did many miracles in Capernaum. This is your home town, so do the same things here!”" 
Luke4:24 I tell you this. People do not accept a prophet of God who comes from their own town. 
Luke4:25 What I tell you is true. There were many widows in the country of Israel when Elijah was alive. At that time, it did not rain for three and a half years. So people were very hungry in all the country." 
Luke4:26 But God did not send Elijah to help a widow in Israel. Instead, God sent Elijah to the country called Sidon. There he helped a widow in a place called Zarephath." 
Luke4:27 Here is another example. When God's prophet Elisha was alive, there were many people in Israel with a bad skin disease. But God did not make any of them well. Instead, he made a man well who was from the country called Syria. That man was called Naaman.’" 
Luke4:28 The people in the meeting place heard what Jesus said. They became very angry. 
Luke4:29 They stood up and they made him leave the town. They took him to the top of the hill outside the town. They wanted to throw him over the edge to the bottom. 
Luke4:30 But Jesus walked through the middle of the crowd and he went away. 
Luke4:31 Jesus went to a town in Galilee called Capernaum. On the Jewish day of rest, he taught the people there." 
Luke4:32 The people were very surprised at the things that Jesus taught them. He spoke with authority. 
Luke4:33 There was a sick man in the meeting place. He had a spirit of a bad demon inside him. The spirit caused the man to shout loudly. 
Luke4:34 He said, ‘Jesus from Nazareth, leave us alone! Do not destroy us! I know who you are. You are God's Holy One!’" 
Luke4:35 Jesus said to the spirit, ‘Be quiet! Come out of the man!’ Then the bad spirit caused the man to fall to the ground in front of the people. It came out of the man but it did not hurt him." 
Luke4:36 All the people were very surprised and they said to each other, ‘Listen to what this man says! He has power and authority. He tells bad spirits to come out of people, and they come out!’" 
Luke4:37 So they began to tell everyone about Jesus. Because of this, people in all the places near Capernaum heard the news about Jesus." 
Luke4:38 Jesus then left the meeting place and he went to Simon's home. The mother of Simon's wife was ill and her body was very hot. So they asked Jesus to make her well. 
Luke4:39 Jesus came and he stood near her. He told the illness to go away and immediately she was well again. She got up and she prepared food for her visitors. 
Luke4:40 When the sun was going down, people in the town brought to Jesus all those people who were ill. They had many different kinds of illness. Jesus put his hands on each ill person and they became well again." 
Luke4:41 Also, bad spirits came out of many people. They were shouting, ‘You are the Son of God.’ The spirits knew that Jesus was the Messiah. Because of this, Jesus stopped them. He would not let them speak." 
Luke4:42 Early the next morning, Jesus went to a place where he could be alone. The people went to look for him. When they found him they said, ‘Do not leave us! Please stay here with us.’" 
Luke4:43 Jesus replied, ‘I must go to other towns to tell everyone the good news. I will tell them how God rules in the lives of his people. That is what God sent me to do.’" 
Luke4:44 Then Jesus travelled to many towns in Judea. He went into the Jewish meeting places and he taught people there. 
Luke4:44 Then Jesus travelled to many towns in Judea. He went into the Jewish meeting places and he taught people there. 
Luke5:1 One day, Jesus was standing on the shore of Lake Gennesaret. A crowd was pushing to get near to him. They were listening to him as he spoke God's message to them." 
Luke5:2 Jesus saw two boats at the edge of the lake. The fishermen had left the boats there and they were now washing their nets. 
Luke5:3 One of the boats belonged to Simon. Jesus got into it. He asked Simon to push it away from the shore. Jesus sat in the boat and he started to teach the people. 
Luke5:4 When Jesus had finished teaching, he said to Simon, ‘Now take the boat out into deep water. Then put the nets into the water to catch some fish.’" 
Luke5:5 Simon replied, ‘Teacher, we worked all last night and we did not catch anything. But because you say it, I will put the nets into the water again.’" 
Luke5:6 So they went in their boat and they put the nets down into the water. When they did that, they caught many fish. There were so many fish that the nets began to break." 
Luke5:7 So they made signs to the fishermen in the other boat. They told the other fishermen to come and help. So the other men came in their boat. They filled both boats with the fish. There were so many fish that the boats began to go down under the water. 
Luke5:8 When Simon saw all the fish, he went down on his knees in front of Jesus. He said, ‘ Lord, I am a bad man. So please go away from me.’" 
Luke5:9 Simon and his friends were very surprised. They were all surprised because they had caught so many fish. 
Luke5:10 Zebedee's sons, James and John, were fishermen who worked with Simon. They were also surprised. Jesus said to Simon, ‘Do not be afraid. You have been catching fish. From now on you will catch people!’" 
Luke5:10 Zebedee's sons, James and John, were fishermen who worked with Simon. They were also surprised. Jesus said to Simon, ‘Do not be afraid. You have been catching fish. From now on you will catch people!’" 
Luke5:10 Zebedee's sons, James and John, were fishermen who worked with Simon. They were also surprised. Jesus said to Simon, ‘Do not be afraid. You have been catching fish. From now on you will catch people!’" 
Luke5:11 After that, they went and they pulled their boats up on the shore. Then they left everything behind and they went with Jesus." 
Luke5:12 One day, Jesus was in a certain town. A man with a bad skin disease was there. When the man saw Jesus, he threw himself down on the ground in front of him. He said, ‘Sir, you can make me well again if you want to do that. Please do it.’" 
Luke5:13 Jesus put out his hand towards the man and touched him. He said, ‘I do want to help you. Be clean again!’ Immediately, the disease left the man." 
Luke5:14 Jesus said to him, ‘Do not tell anyone about this. Instead, go and show yourself to the priest. Take a gift to him for God. Moses taught the people what gift to take to God when they are clean again after this kind of disease. This will show everyone that you are now well again.’" 
Luke5:15 After this, more and more people started to hear the news about Jesus. Crowds were coming to hear him teach. Sick people also wanted him to make them well." 
Luke5:16 But Jesus would often go away from the crowd to pray in quiet places. 
Luke5:17 One day, while Jesus was teaching in someone's house, many people were sitting there. Some of them were Pharisees and some were teachers of God's Law. The people had come from many villages in Galilee, and from Judea and Jerusalem. The power of the Lord was there with Jesus to make sick people well." 
Luke5:17 One day, while Jesus was teaching in someone's house, many people were sitting there. Some of them were Pharisees and some were teachers of God's Law. The people had come from many villages in Galilee, and from Judea and Jerusalem. The power of the Lord was there with Jesus to make sick people well." 
Luke5:18 Then some men arrived. They were carrying a man on a mat. The man could not move his legs. They tried to get into the house because they wanted to bring the man to Jesus. 
Luke5:19 But the house was full of people and they could not get in. So they carried the man onto the flat roof of the house. Then they made a hole in the roof. After that, they put the mat down through the hole. The man was still lying on it. He came down in the middle of the crowd, in front of Jesus." 
Luke5:20 Jesus saw them. He knew that they believed in him. So he said to the sick man, ‘My friend, I forgive you for the wrong things that you have done.’" 
Luke5:21 The Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law heard what Jesus said. So they began to think among themselves, ‘Who is this man? He is speaking as if he is God. Only God can forgive people for the wrong things that they have done.’" 
Luke5:22 Jesus knew what these men were thinking. He told them, ‘You should not be thinking these things." 
Luke5:23 I said to this man, “I forgive you for the wrong things that you have done.” Instead, I could have said to him, “Stand up and walk.” Which of these is easier for me to say?" 
Luke5:24 But I want you to know this. I, the Son of Man, have authority here on earth. I can forgive people for the wrong things that they have done.’ Then Jesus said to the man who could not walk, ‘I am saying to you, “Stand up. Pick up your mat and go home!” ’" 
Luke5:25 Immediately, the man stood up in front of them all. He picked up the mat that he had been lying on. He went home. He was praising God as he went." 
Luke5:26 What had happened surprised everyone. They said, ‘God is great and powerful! We have seen very strange and special things happen today.’" 
Luke5:27 After this happened, Jesus went away from that house. He saw a man that took taxes from people. He was working in his office. His name was Levi. Jesus said to him, ‘Come with me and be my disciple.’" 
Luke5:28 So Levi got up and he went with Jesus. He left everything behind. 
Luke5:29 Soon after this, Levi made a large meal for Jesus at his house. Many people also came and they were eating with them there. Some of them took taxes from people, as Levi did." 
Luke5:30 Some Pharisees and teachers of God's Law saw them there. So they said to Jesus' disciples, ‘You eat and drink with these bad people and with men who take taxes from people. That is not right.’" 
Luke5:31 Jesus answered them, ‘People who are well do not need a doctor. It is people who are ill that need a doctor." 
Luke5:32 Some people think that they always obey God. I have not come to help people like that. But some people know that they have done wrong things. I am asking those people to come to me for help. I want them to change how they live.’ 
Luke5:33 Then the Jewish leaders said to Jesus: ‘The disciples of John the Baptist often choose to fast for a time. Then they can pray to God a lot. The disciples of the Pharisees also do that. But your disciples never do that. They continue to eat and drink every day.’ 
Luke5:33 Then the Jewish leaders said to Jesus: ‘The disciples of John the Baptist often choose to fast for a time. Then they can pray to God a lot. The disciples of the Pharisees also do that. But your disciples never do that. They continue to eat and drink every day.’ 
Luke5:34 Jesus answered them, ‘When a man marries a wife, you cannot stop his friends from eating. They will continue to eat while he is with them." 
Luke5:35 But there will be a time when people take that man away from his friends. Then they will decide to fast.’ 
Luke5:36 Jesus told them this story: ‘Nobody tears a piece of cloth from a new coat to mend an old coat. If he does that, he will have torn the new coat. Also, the piece of cloth from the new coat will not look the same as the old coat." 
Luke5:37 And nobody pours new wine into old wineskins. If he does that, the new wine will tear the old wineskins. He will lose the wine and the wineskins will also be useless." 
Luke5:38 Instead, you must put new wine into new wineskins." 
Luke5:39 Also, nobody wants to drink new wine after he has drunk old wine. He will say, “The old wine is much better.” ’" 
Luke6:1 On a Jewish day of rest, Jesus and his disciples were walking through some fields where wheat was growing. His disciples began to pick some of the wheat. They were rubbing it between their hands and eating the grains." 
Luke6:2 Some of the Pharisees were walking with them. They said, ‘You should not be doing that on our day of rest. It is against God's Law.’" 
Luke6:3 Jesus replied, ‘You have certainly read about what David did one day. He and the men who were with him were hungry." 
Luke6:4 He went into the temple. He took the special bread that was there. It is against God's Law for anyone except the priests to eat that bread. But David ate some of it. He gave some of the bread to his men to eat as well.’ 
Luke6:5 Then Jesus said to them, ‘The Son of Man has authority over rules about the day of rest.’" 
Luke6:6 On another Jewish day of rest, Jesus went into the Jewish meeting place and he taught the people. A man was there. His right hand had become small and weak and he could not use it." 
Luke6:7 Some teachers of God's Law and some Pharisees were watching Jesus carefully. They wanted to find a reason to say that he was doing something wrong. So they watched Jesus to see if he would make the man well on the day of rest. 
Luke6:8 But Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he said to the man, ‘Get up and stand in front of everyone.’ The man got up and he stood there." 
Luke6:9 Then Jesus said to the people, ‘Let me ask you something. Is it right for us to do good things on our day of rest? Or should we do bad things? Should we save a person's life? Or should we destroy their life?’" 
Luke6:10 Jesus looked round at everyone. Then he said to the man, ‘Lift up your hand.’ When the man lifted his hand, it became well. He could use it again!" 
Luke6:11 Then the Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law were very angry. They began to talk to each other about what they could do to Jesus. 
Luke6:12 One day Jesus went up a mountain to pray. He remained there all night and he was praying to God. 
Luke6:13 In the morning, he asked all his disciples to come to him. Then he chose 12 of them and he called them his apostles. These are their names:" 
Luke6:14 Simon (Jesus gave him the name Peter), Andrew (he was Simon's brother), James, John, Philip, Bartholomew," 
Luke6:14 Simon (Jesus gave him the name Peter), Andrew (he was Simon's brother), James, John, Philip, Bartholomew," 
Luke6:14 Simon (Jesus gave him the name Peter), Andrew (he was Simon's brother), James, John, Philip, Bartholomew," 
Luke6:15 Matthew (he was also called Levi), Thomas, James, the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot," 
Luke6:15 Matthew (he was also called Levi), Thomas, James, the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot," 
Luke6:15 Matthew (he was also called Levi), Thomas, James, the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot," 
Luke6:16 Judas, son of James, Judas Iscariot, who later gave Jesus to his enemies." 
Luke6:16 Judas, son of James, Judas Iscariot, who later gave Jesus to his enemies." 
Luke6:17 After Jesus had chosen these 12 men, they all came down the mountain. He stopped and he stood on a flat place. A large crowd of his disciples stood around him. There were also many people from Jerusalem, and from other towns of Judea, and from places on the coast near Tyre and Sidon." 
Luke6:17 After Jesus had chosen these 12 men, they all came down the mountain. He stopped and he stood on a flat place. A large crowd of his disciples stood around him. There were also many people from Jerusalem, and from other towns of Judea, and from places on the coast near Tyre and Sidon." 
Luke6:18 These people had all come to hear Jesus teach. Those people who were ill wanted him to make them well. He also made well those people who had bad spirits. 
Luke6:19 All the people were trying to touch him, because he was using great power to make each person well." 
Luke6:20 Jesus looked at his disciples. He spoke this message to them: ‘Happy are you people who are poor. The kingdom of God belongs to you. 
Luke6:21 Happy are you people who are hungry now. God will feed you until you are full. Happy are you people who are crying now. Later, you will laugh." 
Luke6:22 People may hate you, because you believe in me, the Son of Man. They may say bad things against you and chase you away from them. They may say that you are very bad. When that happens, be happy." 
Luke6:23 God will prepare many good things for you in heaven. So be very happy when people do these bad things to you! Jump up and down because you are so happy. Their ancestors did the same bad things to God's prophets long ago. 
Luke6:24 Listen, you people who are rich. You have a comfortable life now, but it will be very bad for you." 
Luke6:25 Listen, you people who are full with food now. It will be very bad for you and you will be hungry. Listen, you people who are laughing now. It will be very bad for you. You will be sad and you will cry." 
Luke6:26 If people always say good things about you now, it will be very bad for you. Their ancestors also said good things about the false prophets long ago.’" 
Luke6:27 Jesus then said, ‘I say this to you who are listening carefully to me. Love the people who want to hurt you. Do good things to people that hate you." 
Luke6:28 Say good things to people that say bad things against you. Pray for people who give you pain. 
Luke6:29 Someone may hit you on one side of your face. Then you should let him hit the other side of your face too. Someone may take away your coat. If he does, do not stop him from taking your shirt too." 
Luke6:30 When anyone asks you for something, give it to him. Someone may take something that belongs to you. If he does, let him keep it. Do not ask to have it back again." 
Luke6:31 Do the good things for other people that you would want them to do for you. 
Luke6:32 Do you only love people who love you? God will not praise you for doing that! Even bad people love those people who love them. 
Luke6:33 Do you only do good things to people that do good things to you? God will not praise you for doing that! Even bad people do the same thing. 
Luke6:34 Do you lend things only to people who will give your things back to you? God will not praise you for doing that! Even bad people lend things to other people when they believe that they will get them back again. 
Luke6:35 But I am telling you to love people who want to hurt you. Do good things to them. Lend things to people even though you may not receive your things back again. Then God will prepare good things for you. He is kind even to people who do not say “thank you”. He is kind even to very bad people. If you live like this, you will show that you really are children of the powerful God who is over all." 
Luke6:36 You should be kind to other people, as God your Father is kind." 
Luke6:37 Do not judge anyone, to say that they are a bad person. Then God will not judge you in the same way. Do not say to anyone, “You are guilty.” Then God will not say that you are guilty. Forgive other people and God will forgive you." 
Luke6:38 Give to other people and God will give to you. He will give to you even more than you gave. He will fill your pockets until no more will go in. They will be so full that it will come out over the top. Think about how you give to other people. God will give in the same way to you.’ 
Luke6:39 Jesus also used a story to teach the people. He said, ‘A blind person cannot lead another blind person. If he does, then both of them will fall into a deep hole." 
Luke6:40 A student is not more important than his teacher is. But a student who has learned everything will be like his teacher. 
Luke6:41 Perhaps you want to tell your friend about his little mistake. If you want to tell him, first remember your own bigger mistakes." 
Luke6:42 If you do not do that, you will be like a person who has a big piece of wood in his eye. But then he says to his friend, “My friend, you have a little piece of dirt in your eye. Let me take it out for you.” Do not be like that person. You think you are better than your friend. But you are not. First, you must take the big piece of wood out of your eye. After that, your eyes will be clear and you will see well. Then you can take the small piece of dirt out of your friend's eye.’" 
Luke6:43 Jesus said, ‘Good trees only make good fruit. Bad trees only make bad fruit." 
Luke6:44 In this way you can know if a tree is good or bad. You can know this by the fruit that the tree makes. Figs and grapes do not grow on thorn bushes. 
Luke6:45 People are also like that. A good man keeps good things in his mind. In his life, he brings those good things out from there. But a bad man keeps bad things in his mind. He brings those bad thoughts out from there. When a person speaks, his words show what is really in his mind.’" 
Luke6:46 Jesus said, ‘If you refuse to obey me, do not call me, “Master, Master.”" 
Luke6:47 Some people come to me. They listen to my message and they obey it. Let me tell you what those people are like. They are like a man who built a house. 
Luke6:48 This man dug down in the ground to the rock. He put the first line of stones on the rock. After that, he built the house on top of the rock. Then a storm came and it brought a lot of water. The water hit the house but it could not move it. The water could not move the house because the man had built it very well on the rock." 
Luke6:49 Some other people hear my message but they do not obey it. Those people are like another man who built a house. This man did not dig down deep to the rock. Instead, he put the first line of stones on the top of the ground. Then he built his house on them. A storm came and it brought a lot of water. It hit that house and it fell down immediately. The water completely destroyed it.’" 
Luke7:1 After Jesus had finished speaking to the people, he went to Capernaum." 
Luke7:2 A Roman army officer there had a servant that he liked very much. The servant was very ill and he was dying. 
Luke7:3 The officer heard about Jesus, so he sent some important Jews to speak to him. He said to them, ‘Please go to see Jesus. I would like him to make my servant well. Ask him if he would come to do that.’" 
Luke7:4 The Jewish leaders went to Jesus. They asked him, ‘Please would you do something to help this Roman officer." 
Luke7:5 He loves the Jewish people. He himself built a meeting place for us.’ 
Luke7:6 So Jesus went with them. When he was not very far away from the house, the officer sent some friends to talk to him. He told them to say to Jesus, ‘Sir, I do not want to cause any trouble to you. I am not good enough for you to come into my house." 
Luke7:7 That is why I did not come to talk to you myself. Instead, speak your command. I know that my servant will then be well again." 
Luke7:8 In my work, someone has authority over me. I also have authority over other soldiers. I say to one soldier, “Go!” and he goes. I say to another one, “Come!” and he comes. I say to my servant, “Do this!” and he does it.’" 
Luke7:9 Jesus was very surprised when he heard this message from the officer. He turned towards the crowd that was following him. He said to them, ‘I tell you, I have not found anyone like this man in all of Israel. Nobody else believes in me as much as he does.’" 
Luke7:10 The friends of the officer then returned to his house. When they arrived there, they saw that the servant was well again." 
Luke7:11 The next day, Jesus went to a town called Nain. His disciples and a large group of other people went with him." 
Luke7:12 When he had almost reached the gate of the town, lots of people were coming out. They were carrying a dead man on a wooden board. They were taking him to bury him. His mother had no other sons and her husband was also dead. A large crowd of people from the town was going with her." 
Luke7:13 When the Lord Jesus saw her, he felt very sorry for her. He said to her, ‘Do not cry.’" 
Luke7:14 He went to the board and he touched it. The people who were carrying the dead man stopped. Jesus said, ‘Young man, I am telling you, get up!’" 
Luke7:15 Immediately, the dead man sat up and he began to talk. Jesus then gave him back to his mother." 
Luke7:16 Everyone there was very afraid. They praised God and said, ‘A great prophet of God has appeared among us. God has come to save his people!’" 
Luke7:17 This news about Jesus went everywhere in Judea. The people in the places that were near there also heard about it. 
Luke7:17 This news about Jesus went everywhere in Judea. The people in the places that were near there also heard about it. 
Luke7:18 Then some disciples of John the Baptist went to visit John in prison. They told him about all the things that Jesus was doing. So John chose two of them to go to the Lord Jesus for him. 
Luke7:18 Then some disciples of John the Baptist went to visit John in prison. They told him about all the things that Jesus was doing. So John chose two of them to go to the Lord Jesus for him. 
Luke7:19 He said to them, ‘I want you to ask Jesus, “Are you the special person that God is sending to us? If not, should we look for someone else?” ’" 
Luke7:20 So the two men came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘John the Baptist has sent us to you. He wants us to ask you, “Are you the special person that God has promised to send to us? If not, should we look for someone else?” ’" 
Luke7:20 So the two men came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘John the Baptist has sent us to you. He wants us to ask you, “Are you the special person that God has promised to send to us? If not, should we look for someone else?” ’" 
Luke7:21 At that time, Jesus was making many people well. They had many different illnesses. Some had bad spirits in them. Jesus also caused many blind people to see again." 
Luke7:22 So he said to the two men that John had sent, ‘Go back to John. Tell him what you have seen. Tell him what you have heard. Blind people can now see again. People who could not walk can now walk again. People who had a bad skin disease are now well again. Deaf people can now hear again. People who had died now live again. Poor people are hearing God's good news." 
Luke7:22 So he said to the two men that John had sent, ‘Go back to John. Tell him what you have seen. Tell him what you have heard. Blind people can now see again. People who could not walk can now walk again. People who had a bad skin disease are now well again. Deaf people can now hear again. People who had died now live again. Poor people are hearing God's good news." 
Luke7:23 If anyone believes in me and does not turn away, he will be truly happy.’" 
Luke7:24 The two disciples of John then left. Jesus spoke to the crowd about John. He said to them, ‘You went out to the wilderness. What did you go there to see? Was it a tall piece of grass which the wind was blowing this way and that? No, you did not go to see that." 
Luke7:24 The two disciples of John then left. Jesus spoke to the crowd about John. He said to them, ‘You went out to the wilderness. What did you go there to see? Was it a tall piece of grass which the wind was blowing this way and that? No, you did not go to see that." 
Luke7:25 Did you go to see a man who was wearing expensive clothes? No! People like that do not live in the wilderness. They have many beautiful things and they live in great houses. 
Luke7:26 So what did you go to see? Did you go to see a prophet? Yes! But I tell you, John was even more important than a prophet." 
Luke7:26 So what did you go to see? Did you go to see a prophet? Yes! But I tell you, John was even more important than a prophet." 
Luke7:27 This is what is written about him in the Bible. God said: “Listen! I will send someone to go in front of you. He will speak my message. He will prepare a way for you.” ’ 
Luke7:28 Jesus also said to the people, ‘I tell you, John is greater than any person who has ever lived up to now. But now the least important person who belongs in the kingdom of God is greater than John.’" 
Luke7:28 Jesus also said to the people, ‘I tell you, John is greater than any person who has ever lived up to now. But now the least important person who belongs in the kingdom of God is greater than John.’" 
Luke7:29 Many people heard what Jesus said. Even the men who took taxes from people agreed with his message. They had gone to John to baptize them. They all said, ‘What God says about us is right.’" 
Luke7:29 Many people heard what Jesus said. Even the men who took taxes from people agreed with his message. They had gone to John to baptize them. They all said, ‘What God says about us is right.’" 
Luke7:30 But the Pharisees and the men who studied God's Law had not asked John to baptize them. They did not believe the message that God was giving to them. 
Luke7:30 But the Pharisees and the men who studied God's Law had not asked John to baptize them. They did not believe the message that God was giving to them. 
Luke7:31 Jesus continued to teach. He said, ‘I will talk to you about the people who are alive today. I will tell you what they are like." 
Luke7:32 They are like children who are sitting in the market place. They are playing games. They shout to other children, “We made happy music on a flute for you, but you did not dance. Then we sang a sad song but you did not cry.”" 
Luke7:33 You are like those children. When John the Baptist came to you, he did not eat ordinary food. He never drank wine. So you say that John has a bad spirit in him." 
Luke7:33 You are like those children. When John the Baptist came to you, he did not eat ordinary food. He never drank wine. So you say that John has a bad spirit in him." 
Luke7:34 Then I, the Son of Man, came. I eat meals with other people and I drink wine. So you say about me, “Look at this man! He eats too much and he drinks too much. He is a friend of bad people and men who take taxes from people.”" 
Luke7:35 But God is wise and good. Wise people understand and they show that God is right.’ 
Luke7:36 One of the Pharisees asked Jesus to eat a meal with him. So Jesus went to the Pharisee's house and he sat down to eat. 
Luke7:37 In that town was a woman who had done many wrong things. She heard that Jesus was eating a meal at the house of the Pharisee. So she took a small stone jar with oil in it and she went there. The oil had a very nice smell. 
Luke7:38 She went into the house and she stood behind Jesus. She was crying and she made his feet wet with her tears. Then she used her hair to make his feet dry again. She kissed Jesus' feet and she poured the oil out of the jar onto them. 
Luke7:39 When the Pharisee saw this, he said to himself, ‘This man cannot be a prophet from God. If he were, he would know all about this woman. He would know that she is a very bad person. He would not let her touch him.’" 
Luke7:40 Jesus said to him, ‘Simon, I want to tell you something.’ Simon replied, ‘Yes, Teacher, tell me.’ So Jesus told him a story about two men:" 
Luke7:41 ‘Someone had lent two men some money. He had lent one of them 500 silver coins. He had lent the other man 50 silver coins. 
Luke7:42 Neither of the men had enough money to pay him back. Then the man that had lent them the money forgave them. He said to both of them, “You do not need to pay back my money.” ’ Jesus then asked Simon, ‘Which of these two men will love that man more?’" 
Luke7:43 Simon replied, ‘I think it would be the man who needed to pay back the most money.’ Jesus said, ‘You are right.’" 
Luke7:44 Then he turned towards the woman and he said to Simon, ‘You see this woman. When I came into your house, you did not give me water for my feet. But she has washed my feet with her tears and she has made them dry with her hair." 
Luke7:45 You did not say “Hello” to me with a kiss. But this woman began to kiss my feet when she came in. And she has not stopped. 
Luke7:46 You did not put oil on my head. But she has brought oil with a nice smell and put it on my feet. 
Luke7:47 So I tell you, this woman has done many bad things. But I have forgiven her. She loves me a lot, because I have forgiven her for many bad things. If I only forgive someone a little, that person only loves me a little.’" 
Luke7:48 Then Jesus said to the woman, ‘Woman, I forgive you for all the bad things that you have done.’" 
Luke7:49 The other people at the meal talked among themselves. They said, ‘Who is this man? Can he really forgive the bad things that people have done?’" 
Luke7:50 Jesus said to the woman, ‘You have believed in me, so God has saved you. You may go now, and be happy.’" 
Luke8:1 After this, Jesus went to visit many towns and villages. He told people the good news about the kingdom of God. The 12 apostles were travelling with him." 
Luke8:2 Some women also went with them. These women had been ill, but Jesus had made them well again. One of the women was Mary from Magdala. Jesus had sent seven bad spirits away from her." 
Luke8:3 Another of the women was Joanna, the wife of Chuza. Chuza had authority over all the people that worked in the house of King Herod. Another of the women was Susanna. There were also many others. These women were using their own money to help Jesus and his disciples." 
Luke8:4 Lots of people were coming to Jesus from many towns. A large crowd had already come together when Jesus told this story: 
Luke8:5 ‘A farmer went out to plant seeds in his field. While he was throwing the seeds, some of them fell on the path. Then people walked on them. Birds came down and they ate those seeds." 
Luke8:6 Some seeds fell on ground which had rocks. The seeds started to grow. But the young plants died because the ground was not wet enough in that place. 
Luke8:7 Some seeds fell among thorn bushes. Those bushes grew up with the young plants. They stopped the seeds from growing into strong plants. 
Luke8:8 But some seeds fell on good soil. Strong plants grew from those seeds. Each of these plants made 100 seeds.’ When Jesus finished the story, he said, ‘You have ears, so listen well to what I say!’" 
Luke8:9 Jesus' disciples asked him about this story. They asked him what it meant. 
Luke8:10 Jesus said to them, ‘God has let you know what these stories mean. You understand how God rules in the lives of his people. But other people only listen to my stories. They look, but they do not really see clearly. They hear the words, but they do not really understand.’" 
Luke8:11 Jesus then said, ‘This is what the story means. The seeds are like the message from God." 
Luke8:12 Some seeds fell on the path. That is like some people who hear the message, but they do not think about it. The devil comes and he takes the message away from their minds. He takes it away so that they cannot believe it. Because they do not believe the message, God does not save them." 
Luke8:13 Some seeds fell on ground with rocks in it. This is like people who hear the message from God and they are very happy for a time. But they are like plants that have not put roots down into the soil. They believe in God for a short time. But when they have problems, they stop believing." 
Luke8:14 Some seeds fell among thorn bushes. This is like some other people who hear the message from God. But they start to have many troubles in their minds about how they will live. They want to get more money and more things. They think that this will make them happy. So they do not let God's message change them. They are like plants that do not grow into strong plants. 
Luke8:15 But some seeds fell on good soil. This is like other people who hear the message from God. They understand the message and they keep it in their minds. They are good and honest. They continue to believe. These people are like a good plant that grows well and makes lots of new seeds.’ 
Luke8:16 Jesus then said, ‘People do not light a lamp and then cover it. They do not put the lamp under a pot or under a bed. Instead, they put it in a high place. Then other people that come into the room can see the light from the lamp." 
Luke8:17 God hides some things now. But there will be a time when people will see them. God keeps some things secret now. But there will be a time when people will understand those things clearly. 
Luke8:18 So you should think carefully about what you hear. The person who has received some things will receive more. But some other people have nothing. They think that they have a little bit. But they will lose even that.’ 
Luke8:19 Then Jesus' mother and his brothers came to see him. But they could not reach him because of the large crowd of people who were there. 
Luke8:20 Someone told Jesus, ‘Your mother and brothers are standing outside. They want to see you.’" 
Luke8:21 Jesus replied, ‘I will tell you who my mother and brothers really are. My mother and my brothers are those people who hear God's message and do what he wants.’" 
Luke8:22 One day, Jesus got into a boat with his disciples. He said to them, ‘We should go across to the other side of the lake.’ So they started to go across the lake." 
Luke8:23 While they sailed in the boat, Jesus began to sleep. Then a strong wind started to blow across the lake. Water began to fill the boat and they were in danger." 
Luke8:24 So the disciples went to Jesus and they woke him. They said, ‘Master, master, we will die here in the water!’ Then Jesus got up and he spoke strongly to the wind and to the water. He said, ‘Stop!’ The wind stopped immediately and the water became flat." 
Luke8:25 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘You should have trusted me.’ The disciples were afraid and very surprised. They asked each other, ‘Who is this man? He even tells the wind and the water what to do. He speaks and they obey him!’" 
Luke8:26 Jesus and his disciples went to the place where the Gerasene people lived. This place is across the lake from Galilee. 
Luke8:27 When Jesus got out of the boat there, a man from the town came towards him. Bad spirits were living inside this man. He had not worn any clothes for a long time. He did not live in a house. Instead, he lived outside, among some graves." 
Luke8:28 When he saw Jesus, he screamed. Then he went down on his knees in front of Jesus and he said in a loud voice, ‘Jesus, you are the Son of the Most High God! What are you doing here? Please do not hurt me.’" 
Luke8:29 He said that because Jesus had already said to the bad spirit, ‘Come out of this man.’ The bad spirit had often taken hold of the man, so people watched him carefully. They tied his feet with metal chains. But when the bad spirit took hold of him, he often broke the chains. The bad spirit then caused him to go into the wilderness." 
Luke8:30 Jesus asked the man, ‘What is your name?’ The man replied, ‘My name is Army.’ He said this because very many bad spirits had gone into him." 
Luke8:31 These bad spirits asked Jesus not to send them away to the deep hole below the earth. 
Luke8:32 There was a large group of pigs there and they were eating on the hill. The bad spirits asked Jesus, ‘Let us go into the pigs.’ Jesus replied, ‘Yes, you can go into them.’" 
Luke8:33 So the bad spirits came out of the man and they went into the pigs. All the pigs rushed together down the hill into the lake. They all died there in the water. 
Luke8:34 The men who were taking care of the pigs saw this happen. They ran away. They told the people in the town and in the villages what had happened. 
Luke8:35 So the people came out from these places to see what had happened. They came to Jesus. The man that the bad spirits had come out of was sitting there, beside Jesus' feet. Now he was wearing clothes and his mind was well again. When the people saw this, they were afraid." 
Luke8:36 Some people had seen Jesus make the man well. They told the other people how he had done this. 
Luke8:37 Then all the Gerasene people who lived in that place said to Jesus, ‘Please go away and leave us.’ They said this because they were very afraid. So Jesus got back into the boat to leave that place." 
Luke8:38 Then the man that the bad spirits had gone out from said to Jesus, ‘Please let me come with you.’ But Jesus replied," 
Luke8:39 ‘No. You must return to your home. Tell people about everything that God has done for you.’ So the man went away. He went everywhere in the town and told all the people, ‘Jesus has done very good things for me.’" 
Luke8:40 When Jesus returned to the other side of the lake, the crowd was very happy to see him. They were all waiting for him to come back." 
Luke8:41 Then a man called Jairus came to see him. He was a leader at the Jewish meeting place. He went down on his knees at the feet of Jesus and said, ‘Please come to my house." 
Luke8:42 I have one daughter. She is 12 years old and she is very ill. She will die very soon.’ So Jesus went with Jairus and a crowd of people went with him. They were pushing against him. 
Luke8:43 There was a sick woman in the crowd who had lost blood for 12 years. She had paid all her money to doctors and now she had no money. But nobody could help her to become well again. 
Luke8:44 She came in the crowd behind Jesus and she touched the edge of his coat. Immediately she stopped bleeding. 
Luke8:45 Jesus asked, ‘Who touched me?’ Everyone around him said, ‘It was not me. I did not touch you.’ Then Peter said to Jesus, ‘Master, there is a big crowd around you. Many people are pushing against you.’" 
Luke8:46 Jesus said, ‘Someone did touch me. I know that something powerful went out from me.’" 
Luke8:47 The woman knew that she could not hide herself. So she was very afraid. She came to Jesus and she went down on the ground in front of him. She spoke so that all the people could hear her. She said, ‘I wanted to be well again, so I touched Jesus. When I did that, I became well immediately.’" 
Luke8:48 Jesus said to her, ‘Young woman, you are well again because you believed in me. Go now and have peace in your mind.’" 
Luke8:49 While Jesus was still speaking, someone arrived from Jairus' house. He told Jairus, ‘Your daughter is dead. Do not ask the teacher to come now.’" 
Luke8:50 Jesus heard what the man said. So he said to Jairus, ‘Do not be afraid. Just believe in me. Then she will become well again.’" 
Luke8:51 When they arrived at the house, Jesus would not let everyone go in with him. He took only Peter, John and James. He also let the mother and father of the girl go into the house." 
Luke8:51 When they arrived at the house, Jesus would not let everyone go in with him. He took only Peter, John and James. He also let the mother and father of the girl go into the house." 
Luke8:51 When they arrived at the house, Jesus would not let everyone go in with him. He took only Peter, John and James. He also let the mother and father of the girl go into the house." 
Luke8:52 All the people there were crying loudly because they were very sad. Jesus told them, ‘Do not weep. The child is not dead. She is only asleep.’" 
Luke8:53 But the people knew that she had died. So they laughed at him. 
Luke8:54 But Jesus went and held the child's hand. He said to her, ‘My child, get up.’" 
Luke8:55 Then she became alive again. Immediately she stood up. Jesus said to her parents, ‘Give her something to eat.’" 
Luke8:56 They were very surprised. Jesus said to them very strongly, ‘You must not tell anyone about what has happened.’" 
Luke9:1 Jesus asked his 12 apostles to come to him. He gave them power and authority. They could make sick people well. They could also send bad spirits out of people. 
Luke9:2 Then he sent them out to tell people about the kingdom of God. He told them that they should also make sick people well again. 
Luke9:3 He said to them, ‘Do not take anything for your journey. Do not take a stick, or a bag, or food. Do not take any money. Do not take extra clothes." 
Luke9:4 In each town, continue to stay at the first house that you go into. Stay there until you leave that town." 
Luke9:5 In some towns, the people will not accept you. You should leave that place. Clean that town's dirt from your feet. Then it will be clear that they have done something wrong.’" 
Luke9:6 Then the apostles started out. They went to visit all the villages. In every place they told people the good news about Jesus and they made sick people well. 
Luke9:7 People told Herod, the ruler of Galilee, about all the things that were happening. His mind was confused because people were saying lots of different things about Jesus. Some people were saying, ‘John the Baptist died but now he has become alive again.’" 
Luke9:7 People told Herod, the ruler of Galilee, about all the things that were happening. His mind was confused because people were saying lots of different things about Jesus. Some people were saying, ‘John the Baptist died but now he has become alive again.’" 
Luke9:8 Other people were saying, ‘It is Elijah that has come back.’ Some other people were saying, ‘This is one of God's prophets who lived a long time ago. Now he has become alive again.’" 
Luke9:9 Herod said, ‘I sent a soldier to cut off John's head. So who is this man? I hear many things about him.’ After that, Herod was trying to meet Jesus." 
Luke9:9 Herod said, ‘I sent a soldier to cut off John's head. So who is this man? I hear many things about him.’ After that, Herod was trying to meet Jesus." 
Luke9:10 The 12 apostles that Jesus had sent out returned. They told him what they had done. Then he took them away from the crowd, so that he could be alone with them. They went to a town called Bethsaida." 
Luke9:11 But the crowds realized what had happened. So they went to find Jesus. When he saw the crowds coming, he welcomed them. He taught them about the kingdom of God. Some sick people were there and he made them well again." 
Luke9:12 When it was nearly evening, the 12 apostles came to Jesus. They said, ‘There are no houses in this place. Send the crowd away now. Tell them to go to the villages and farms near here. Then they can get food to eat and they can find a place to sleep.’" 
Luke9:13 Jesus said to them, ‘You should give them some food to eat.’ But the disciples said, ‘We have only five loaves of bread and two fish. Do you want us to go and buy food for all these people?’" 
Luke9:14 There were about 5,000 men in the crowd. Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Tell the people that they should sit down on the ground in groups. There should be about 50 people in each group.’" 
Luke9:15 So they did this. When the people had sat down," 
Luke9:16 Jesus took the five loaves of bread and the two fish. Then he looked up towards heaven and he thanked God for the food. He broke the bread into pieces. He gave the pieces of bread to the disciples, and they gave the bread to the crowd." 
Luke9:17 Everybody ate and they all had enough food. They were not hungry any more. Then the disciples picked up the bits of food that people had not eaten. They filled 12 baskets with all the little bits of food. 
Luke9:18 One day, Jesus was alone and he was praying. The disciples came to him. Jesus asked them, ‘When the crowds talk about me, who do they say that I am?’" 
Luke9:19 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are one of God's prophets from long ago. They think that this prophet has become alive again.’" 
Luke9:19 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are one of God's prophets from long ago. They think that this prophet has become alive again.’" 
Luke9:20 Jesus then asked them. ‘But what do you think? Who do you say that I am?’ Peter replied, ‘You are the Messiah. God has sent you.’" 
Luke9:21 Jesus spoke very strongly to them. He told them that they must not tell anyone about this. 
Luke9:22 Then he said, ‘The Son of Man will have to suffer in many ways. The important Jews, the leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law will turn against him. People will kill him, but three days later God will cause him to become alive again.’" 
Luke9:23 Then Jesus said to all the people that were there, ‘A person who wants to be my disciple must not think about himself. He must decide that his own life is not important. Every day he must be like someone who carries his own cross to go and die. Then he may come with me as my disciple." 
Luke9:24 Whoever wants to keep his own life safe will lose it. But whoever agrees to lose his life because of me will have true life. 
Luke9:25 A person may get everything in the whole world for himself. But if he loses his life, it would not be any good for him. He will have destroyed himself in the end." 
Luke9:26 You must not be ashamed of me and of my words. If you are, then the Son of Man will be ashamed of you. One day he will return and everyone will see his power. He will come with God's holy angels and he will have the bright glory of his Father God. He will be ashamed of you on that day, if you are ashamed of him now.’" 
Luke9:27 Then Jesus said, ‘What I tell you is true. Some people who are standing here will see God begin to rule in his kingdom. They will see that before they die.’" 
Luke9:28 About eight days after Jesus had said these things, he went up a mountain to pray. He took Peter, John and James with him." 
Luke9:28 About eight days after Jesus had said these things, he went up a mountain to pray. He took Peter, John and James with him." 
Luke9:28 About eight days after Jesus had said these things, he went up a mountain to pray. He took Peter, John and James with him." 
Luke9:29 While Jesus was praying, his face became different to look at. His clothes also became very white. They were shining brightly." 
Luke9:30 Then two men appeared and they were talking with Jesus. They were Moses and Elijah. 
Luke9:31 They were very bright to look at. They talked with Jesus about how he would soon die in Jerusalem. This was how God wanted him to leave this world. 
Luke9:32 While this was happening, Peter and his friends were sleeping. Then they woke up and they saw that Jesus was very bright with glory. They also saw the two men who were standing near to him." 
Luke9:33 Then the two men began to leave. So Peter said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, it is good that we are here. Please, let us build three huts. One hut will be for you. One hut will be for Moses and one hut will be for Elijah.’ But Peter did not really know what he was saying." 
Luke9:34 While Peter was speaking, a cloud appeared. It covered them all. When the cloud came over them, the three disciples were afraid." 
Luke9:35 Then a voice spoke from the cloud and it said, ‘This is my Son. He is the one that I have chosen. Listen to him.’" 
Luke9:36 The voice finished speaking. Then the three disciples saw that only Jesus was there with them now. They did not tell anyone at that time about what they had seen. 
Luke9:37 The next day Jesus came down from the mountain with the three disciples. A large crowd met him. 
Luke9:38 A man from the crowd shouted to him. ‘Teacher, please, I ask you to help my son. He is my only child." 
Luke9:39 Sometimes a bad spirit takes hold of him and then he screams. The spirit throws his body first one way then another and water comes out of his mouth. The spirit gives him a lot of pain and it does not leave him alone very much. 
Luke9:40 I asked your disciples to send the bad spirit out of him. But they could not do it.’ 
Luke9:41 Jesus said, ‘You people today still do not believe in God. You have turned away from him. I have been with you for a long time and still you do not believe. It is difficult for me to be patient with you.’ Then Jesus said to the man, ‘Bring your son here.’" 
Luke9:42 While the boy was coming, the bad spirit threw him to the ground. It threw the boy first one way and then the other. Jesus said to it, ‘Stop!’ Then he made the boy well and he gave him back to his father." 
Luke9:43 Everybody was very surprised at what they saw. They knew that God was very powerful. The people were very surprised about everything that Jesus was doing. Then Jesus said to his disciples," 
Luke9:44 ‘Do not forget what I am telling you now. Soon they will put the Son of Man under the power of his enemies.’ 
Luke9:45 But they did not understand what Jesus had said. Its meaning was a secret to them, so they could not understand. They were afraid to ask Jesus, ‘What do you mean?’" 
Luke9:46 Then the disciples began to argue with each other. They argued about which of them was the most important. 
Luke9:47 Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he took a child and he made him stand there at his side. 
Luke9:48 Jesus said, ‘If someone accepts this child because of me, then he also accepts me. And anyone who accepts me also accepts my Father God, who sent me. The person who makes himself the least important among you is really the greatest.’" 
Luke9:49 John then said, ‘Teacher, we saw a man who was speaking to people who had bad spirits in them. He was saying, “Jesus says that you must come out.” We told the man that he must not do this. We said that because he is not in our group.’" 
Luke9:49 John then said, ‘Teacher, we saw a man who was speaking to people who had bad spirits in them. He was saying, “Jesus says that you must come out.” We told the man that he must not do this. We said that because he is not in our group.’" 
Luke9:50 Jesus said, ‘Do not try to stop him. If someone is not against you, he is working to help you.’" 
Luke9:51 The time came when God would soon take Jesus up to heaven. Jesus knew this, so he began to go towards Jerusalem." 
Luke9:52 He arrived near a village in Samaria. He sent some people into the village with a message. They went to ask for a place to stay for the night. 
Luke9:53 But the people in the village would not let him stay there. This was because he was going to Jerusalem. 
Luke9:54 Then James and John heard about what had happened. They asked Jesus, ‘Master, do you want us to ask God to send fire down from the sky? Do you want us to kill these people?’" 
Luke9:54 Then James and John heard about what had happened. They asked Jesus, ‘Master, do you want us to ask God to send fire down from the sky? Do you want us to kill these people?’" 
Luke9:54 Then James and John heard about what had happened. They asked Jesus, ‘Master, do you want us to ask God to send fire down from the sky? Do you want us to kill these people?’" 
Luke9:55 Jesus turned round. He said, ‘No! Do not do that. It would be wrong.’" 
Luke9:56 Then they all went on to another village. 
Luke9:57 They continued on their journey. A man came and said to Jesus, ‘I will go with you. And I will go with you everywhere that you go.’" 
Luke9:58 Jesus replied, ‘Wild animals and birds have their own places to live. But I, the Son of Man, have no place of my own to lie down and rest.’" 
Luke9:59 Then Jesus said to another man, ‘Come with me!’ The man replied, ‘First let me go home and bury my father. Then I will come with you.’" 
Luke9:60 Jesus said, ‘No! Let people who are dead themselves bury their own dead people. You should go and tell people about the kingdom of God.’" 
Luke9:61 Another man said, ‘Sir, I will come with you. But please let me first go home to say “Goodbye” to my family.’" 
Luke9:62 Jesus replied, ‘A man that ploughs a field must continue to look straight in front of him. If he looks behind him, he cannot plough well. People that look back behind them cannot work well for the kingdom of God.’" 
Luke10:1 After this, Jesus chose another 72 disciples. He sent them out two by two, to every town and village that he would visit soon." 
Luke10:2 Before they went, he said to them, ‘Many people are ready to believe God's message. They are like crops in a field at harvest time. But there are very few workers to bring in the crops. So pray to God to send out workers. The field and the crops belong to him.’" 
Luke10:3 Jesus then said, ‘I am sending you out, so go! But listen! You will be like lambs among wild animals." 
Luke10:4 Do not carry a purse or a bag. Do not take extra shoes. When you meet other people on the road, do not stop to say “hello”." 
Luke10:5 In each town, when you go into a house, first ask God to bless the people there with peace." 
Luke10:6 If someone in the house loves peace, God will bless them with peace. But if nobody there loves peace, God will bless you with peace instead of them." 
Luke10:7 Stay in the same house there until you leave that town. Accept the food and drink that the people in the house give to you. You are working to help them. So they should give you what you need to live. Do not visit different houses to get food. 
Luke10:8 The people may accept you well when you go into a town. Then eat the food that those people give to you. 
Luke10:9 Make the sick people well who are there. Give this message to all the people there: “The kingdom of God has now come near to you.” 
Luke10:10 Sometimes when you go into a town, the people will not accept you. You should then go into the streets of that town and you should say to the people," 
Luke10:11 “There is dirt from your town on our feet. We will clean it off to show that you have not accepted us. God is not happy with you. But listen! You should know that the kingdom of God has come very near.” 
Luke10:12 One day God will punish the people from that town. Yes, he will punish them more than the people who lived in Sodom long ago.’" 
Luke10:13 Jesus then said, ‘You people in Chorazin, it will be very bad for you! And it will be very bad for you, people in Bethsaida. I have done great and powerful things in your cities. If I had done such great things in Tyre and in Sidon, the people there would have changed how they lived. They would have shown that they were sorry for their sins. They would have put on sackcloth. They would also have put ashes on their heads." 
Luke10:14 Yes, when God judges everyone, he will punish the people of Tyre and Sidon. But he will punish even more you people from Chorazin and Bethsaida." 
Luke10:15 And what will happen to you people in Capernaum? You think that God will lift you up to heaven, do you? No! He will throw you down into the deep hole of death!’" 
Luke10:16 Jesus then said to his disciples, ‘Whoever listens to you is also listening to me. Whoever does not accept you does not accept me. And whoever does not accept me does not accept my Father God, who sent me.’" 
Luke10:17 Later, the 72 disciples that Jesus had sent out returned to him. They were very happy. They said, ‘ Lord, even bad spirits obey us. When we use your name, they do what we say.’" 
Luke10:18 Jesus replied, ‘I saw Satan himself fall from heaven like lightning." 
Luke10:19 Listen! I have given power to you. You will even stand on dangerous snakes and insects and you will have authority over all the power of our enemy, Satan. Nothing will hurt you." 
Luke10:20 But do not be happy because you have authority over bad spirits. God has written your names in his book in heaven. That is why you should be happy.’ 
Luke10:21 At this moment, the Holy Spirit made Jesus very happy. Jesus said, ‘Father, you rule over heaven and over the earth! People who do not know many things now can understand your message. I thank you for this. But you have hidden these things from people who think that they are wise. They think that they understand everything. Yes, Father, this is how you wanted it to happen.’" 
Luke10:22 Jesus then said, ‘My Father has given me authority over all things. Only the Father knows who I am, his Son. Only I know who the Father is, because I am his Son. I also choose to tell some people about him, so they know him too.’" 
Luke10:23 Then Jesus turned and he spoke only to his disciples. He said to them, ‘Be happy because of the things that you are now able to see and understand." 
Luke10:24 I tell you this. Many prophets and kings from a long time ago wanted to see these things. But they did not see the things that you are seeing. They wanted to hear the message that you are hearing. But they did not hear it.’ 
Luke10:25 A teacher of God's Law stood up. He wanted to see how Jesus would answer his question. So he asked Jesus, ‘Teacher, what must I do so that I can live with God for ever?’" 
Luke10:26 Jesus asked him, ‘What does God's Law say? What do you understand when you read it?’" 
Luke10:27 The man replied, ‘It says that we must love the Lord our God with all our mind and with all our strength. We must love him with all that we are and in all that we think. It also says that we must love other people as much as we love ourselves.’" 
Luke10:28 Jesus said, ‘You have told me the right answer. If you do this, you will have true life with God.’" 
Luke10:29 But the man wanted to show that he had been right to ask a question. So he asked, ‘Who are the people near to me that I must love?’" 
Luke10:30 Jesus answered him with a story: ‘A man was going down the road from Jerusalem to Jericho town. On the way, some robbers attacked him. They took away all his clothes and they hit him with sticks. He was almost dead when they left him." 
Luke10:31 It happened that a priest from the temple was going along that road. He saw the man, who was lying there. But he walked past him on the other side of the road." 
Luke10:32 A Levite was also going along the road. He came to the place where the man was lying. He saw him. But he also walked past on the other side of the road. 
Luke10:33 But then a man from Samaria was also travelling along the road. He came to the place where the man was lying. When he saw him, he felt very sorry for him." 
Luke10:34 He went across to him. He poured oil and wine on the places where he was bleeding. Then he tied those places with clean cloths. After that, he put the man on his own donkey to carry him. They arrived at a small hotel. He took the man in there and he took care of him." 
Luke10:35 The next day, the man from Samaria took out two silver coins from his purse. He gave the money to the man who was taking care of the hotel. He said, “Be kind to this man for me. This money may not be enough. When I return, I will pay you for any more that you have spent on him.” ’" 
Luke10:36 Then Jesus asked the teacher of God's Law a question. He said, ‘Three men saw the man that robbers had attacked. Which of them showed love to him, like a real friend?’" 
Luke10:37 The teacher answered, ‘It was the man who was kind to him.’ Then Jesus said to him, ‘Yes. So you should go and be kind like that to other people.’" 
Luke10:38 Jesus and his disciples continued their journey. They arrived at a certain village. There, a woman called Martha asked Jesus to come into her home." 
Luke10:39 Martha had a sister called Mary. Mary sat down near Jesus. She was listening to the things that he was teaching. 
Luke10:40 But Martha was thinking to herself, ‘I cannot do all this work alone.’ So she went to Jesus. She said, ‘Master, my sister is not helping me with the work. She has left me to do it alone. You surely do not think that this is right! Tell her that she should help me!’" 
Luke10:41 The Lord Jesus replied, ‘Martha, Martha, you have troubles in your mind about many things." 
Luke10:42 But only one thing is really important. That is what Mary has chosen to do. Nobody will take it away from her.’ 
Luke11:1 One day, Jesus was praying in a certain place. He finished praying. Then, one of his disciples said to him, ‘Master, John taught his disciples how to pray. Please teach us as he did.’" 
Luke11:1 One day, Jesus was praying in a certain place. He finished praying. Then, one of his disciples said to him, ‘Master, John taught his disciples how to pray. Please teach us as he did.’" 
Luke11:2 Jesus replied, ‘When you pray, you should say this: “God, our Father, we want people to give honour to you. We want the day when you rule everyone to come soon." 
Luke11:3 Please give to us the food that we need each day. 
Luke11:4 Forgive us for our sins, because we also forgive everyone who has done wrong things to us. Do not let us agree to do wrong things.” ’" 
Luke11:5 Jesus then told a story to teach them how to pray. He said, ‘Let me tell you about someone who goes to a friend's home at midnight. He says, “My friend, please give me three loaves of bread." 
Luke11:6 A friend of mine is on a journey and he has arrived at my house. But I have no food to give him.” 
Luke11:7 But his friend answers from inside his house. He says, “Do not cause problems for me! I have locked my door. My children and I have gone to bed. So I cannot get up and give you any bread.” ’" 
Luke11:8 Then Jesus said, ‘I will tell you what will happen. Perhaps your friend will not give you anything just because you are good friends. But if you continue to knock and ask for bread, your friend will get up. He will give you bread, as much as you need." 
Luke11:9 So I tell you this. Continue to ask God for what you need. Then God will give it to you. Continue to look for what you need. Then you will find it. Continue to knock at the door and God will open it for you. 
Luke11:10 Everyone who asks for something will receive it. Everyone who looks for something will find it. God will open the door for everyone who knocks on it. 
Luke11:11 Some of you are fathers. If your son asks you for a fish, you would not give him a snake instead." 
Luke11:12 If he asks you for an egg, you would not give him something dangerous." 
Luke11:13 You are bad. But even you know how to give good things to your children. Your Father in heaven knows much better than you do how to give good things to his children. So he will certainly give the Holy Spirit to everyone who asks him.’ 
Luke11:14 One day, Jesus was telling a bad spirit to go out of a man. Because of the bad spirit, the man could not speak. But after it had gone out of him, the man could speak again. All the people that were watching were surprised at this." 
Luke11:15 But some people in the crowd were not happy with Jesus. They said, ‘This man can send demons out of people because Beelzebul gives him authority. That is Satan, the one who rules all the demons.’" 
Luke11:16 Some other people wanted to test Jesus to see what he would do. So they asked him, ‘Do a miracle for us to see. Then we will know that God has sent you.’" 
Luke11:17 But Jesus knew what those people were thinking. He said to them, ‘If armies in a country start to fight each other, they will destroy their own country. If people in one family fight against each other, they will destroy their own family." 
Luke11:18 So Satan would not fight against himself. If he did that, it would be the end of his kingdom. But you say that Beelzebul helps me to destroy demons." 
Luke11:19 If that is true, what do you say about your own disciples? They also send demons out of people. You would not say that it is Satan's power that helps them. So your own people show that you are wrong about this." 
Luke11:20 When I send demons out of people, I use the power of God. This shows that God has come to rule among you." 
Luke11:21 When a strong man has all the weapons he needs to fight with, he can take care of his own house. Nobody will be able to rob him of the things inside his house." 
Luke11:22 But someone may come who is stronger than he is. That man will attack him and beat him. The strong man believed his weapons would keep him safe. But the stronger man will take his weapons away. He will take the strong man's things and give them to other people. 
Luke11:23 If someone does not agree to help me, he is working against me. You should work with me to bring people to me for help. If you do not do that, you are making people run away from me.’" 
Luke11:24 Jesus then said, ‘When a bad spirit goes out of a person, it travels through dry places. It looks for a new place to live. But maybe it does not find anywhere. So it says to itself, “I will return to the place where I lived before.”" 
Luke11:25 Then it goes back to that person. It finds that the place is empty. Everything there is now good and clean. 
Luke11:26 So the bad spirit goes out and it brings back seven other spirits. They are even worse than itself. They all go into the person and they live there. Now the person's life is even worse than it was before.’ 
Luke11:27 While Jesus was saying this, a woman in the crowd shouted out, ‘God has blessed the woman who gave birth to you! He has made the woman who fed you from her breasts very happy!’" 
Luke11:28 Jesus replied, ‘It is the people who hear God's message who are happy. They are happy if they obey it.’" 
Luke11:29 The crowd around Jesus was growing very large, so he began to speak to them. He said, ‘The people who are alive today are very wicked. They want God to show them something powerful. But God will not do this for them. They will only see the same powerful thing that God did for Jonah." 
Luke11:30 Jonah showed God's power to the people who lived in Nineveh. They knew that God had sent him. In the same way the Son of Man will show God's power to the people that are living today. Then they will know that God has sent me. 
Luke11:31 Also, the Queen of Sheba travelled a long way to see King Solomon. She wanted to hear his wise words. When God judges everyone, she will stand up. She will speak against you who are alive today. She will show that you are bad people. She listened to King Solomon. But look! There is someone here now who is greater than Solomon was." 
Luke11:32 When God judges everyone, the people who lived in Nineveh will be there. They will stand up and they will speak against you. They will show that the people who are alive today are bad. When Jonah spoke to the people in Nineveh long ago, they stopped doing bad things. But look! There is someone here now who is greater than Jonah was.’" 
Luke11:33 Then Jesus said, ‘When someone lights a lamp, he does not hide it. And he does not put it under a pot. Instead, he puts it in a high place. Then other people who come into the room can see the light from the lamp." 
Luke11:34 Your eyes are like lamps and your body is like a room. Be careful that your eyes are like a clean lamp, then your whole body will have light. But if your eyes are dirty, your whole body will be completely in the dark." 
Luke11:35 So you must be careful. Be sure that you really have light in you. Be sure that you are not still in the dark. 
Luke11:36 Your whole body needs to have lots of light. Nothing dark should be there. It will be as if a lamp is shining its bright light on you.’ 
Luke11:37 While Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to eat a meal with him. So Jesus went to the Pharisee's house and he sat down at the table." 
Luke11:38 Jesus did not wash his hands before he ate the meal. This surprised the Pharisee. 
Luke11:39 So the Lord Jesus said to him, ‘You Pharisees are like someone who only cleans the outside of his cup and his plate. You only clean the part that people can see. But inside, your mind is full of bad thoughts. You like to take things from other people." 
Luke11:40 What fools you are! God made the inside of you as well as the outside. He knows all about you. 
Luke11:41 So be ready to give things to poor people. Then you will be really clean, on the inside as well as the outside." 
Luke11:42 It will be very bad for you Pharisees! When you grow spices to cook with food, you give a tenth part of these small things to God. You are right to obey this rule. But you do not do the most important things. You do not help people in a good way. You do not really love God. You should have done the important things as well as the other little things." 
Luke11:43 Yes, it will be very bad for you Pharisees! You like to sit in the best seats in the meeting place. And you like people to praise you in the market place." 
Luke11:44 It will be very bad for you. You want to seem good to other people, but you are bad on the inside. You are like a grave that has nothing to show that it is there. People walk on that place because they do not know that there is a dead person there.’" 
Luke11:45 Then a teacher of God's Law said, ‘Teacher, when you say these things, you are also saying bad things about us.’" 
Luke11:46 Jesus replied, ‘It will be very bad for you as well, teachers of God's Law. You give rules to people to obey. Those rules are like things that are too heavy for people to carry. You do not even help people to carry them. You refuse to use even one finger to help them!" 
Luke11:47 Yes, it will be very bad for you! A long time ago, your ancestors killed God's prophets. Now, you build up beautiful stones to show the place where they buried them." 
Luke11:48 You know that your ancestors killed the prophets. Now you build up the places where they buried them. So you show that you agree with your ancestors. You agree with what they did. 
Luke11:49 God is wise. Because you do not obey what is true, he said, “I will send my prophets and apostles to go to them. But they will kill some of my servants. They will hurt others of them.”" 
Luke11:50 Since the beginning of the world, people have killed God's prophets. But God will punish the people who are alive today for all those murders." 
Luke11:51 Abel was the first to die like this and Zechariah was the last. They even killed Zechariah in the yard of the temple, near the altar. Yes, God will punish the people who are alive today for all those murders." 
Luke11:52 It will be very bad for you teachers of God's Law! You have studied God's message. But you do not then accept it. You have also stopped people who really wanted to know God's message. Then they could not go on to accept it and go into God's kingdom.’ 
Luke11:53 Then Jesus left that place. The Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law were angry against Jesus. They were asking him many difficult questions. 
Luke11:54 They wanted to make him say something wrong. Then they could take hold of him. 
Luke12:1 While all this was happening, many thousands of people had come together near that place. The crowd was so big that people were almost walking over each other. Jesus began to talk first to his disciples. He said, ‘Be careful! Do not accept the yeast of the Pharisees. Do not be hypocrites like they are." 
Luke12:2 Some people hide the things that they do. But there will be a time when other people will see those things clearly. Everyone will know all their secrets. 
Luke12:3 You may have said things secretly in the dark of the night. But one day, people will hear those things in the light of day. You may have said things quietly into someone's ear, behind a door that you have shut. But one day, people will shout out those secrets loudly from the tops of the houses." 
Luke12:4 You are my friends, so I tell you this. Do not be afraid of those people who can kill only your body. After that, they can do nothing worse to you." 
Luke12:5 But I tell you, it is God that you should be afraid of. He has the power to kill people and then to throw them into hell. Yes, I am telling you, be very afraid of him." 
Luke12:6 Think about this. People sell five birds for two small coins. But each little bird is valuable to God. He knows about them all and he takes care of them. 
Luke12:7 God even knows how many hairs there are on your head. So do not be afraid of those people who are against you. You are more valuable to God than many little birds. 
Luke12:8 I tell you this. You should say clearly to other people, “I belong to Jesus.” If you do that, I, the Son of Man, will say to the angels of God, “This person is my disciple.”" 
Luke12:9 But if you say to other people, “I do not believe in Jesus,” I will say to the angels of God, “I do not know this person. He is not one of my disciples.”" 
Luke12:10 Somebody may speak against me, the Son of Man, and God will forgive him. But if somebody says bad things against the Holy Spirit, God will not forgive that person." 
Luke12:11 People will take you into their meeting places. They will make you stand in front of rulers and other people that have authority. They will want to show that you have done bad things. But do not be afraid of them. Do not worry about what you should say. 
Luke12:12 At that time, the Holy Spirit will teach you. He will tell you what words you should say.’" 
Luke12:13 Someone in the crowd said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, I have a problem with my brother. Our father has died. Tell my brother to give me my part of the things that our father left us.’" 
Luke12:14 Jesus replied, ‘It is not my job to say which of you is right or wrong. And it is not my job to say how much each of you should have.’" 
Luke12:15 Then he said to all the people, ‘Be very careful! Do not want more things than you really need. A person's life is worth more than the things that he has, even if he is very rich.’" 
Luke12:16 Jesus then told them this story: ‘A man had some very good ground, where he planted seeds. The plants grew very well. When they became ripe, he had much more than he had planted." 
Luke12:17 He thought about how much he would soon have. He said to himself, “I have nowhere to store all the food from my plants.”" 
Luke12:18 But then he decided what to do. He thought, “I will pull down the building where I now store my food. Then I will build a bigger place to store it all, as well as everything else that is mine." 
Luke12:19 Then I will say to myself, ‘You have plenty of things stored safely. These will be enough for you for many years. Now you can live an easy life. Eat and drink as much as you want. Enjoy yourself.’ ”" 
Luke12:20 But then God said to the man, “You are a fool! Tonight you will die. You will have to leave behind everything that you have stored for yourself. Somebody else will have them, but you will not!” ’" 
Luke12:21 Then Jesus said, ‘Some people think only about having many things for themselves. This story shows how those people live. But God says about them, “They have nothing of value at all.” ’" 
Luke12:22 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘I tell you this. You should not worry about how to stay alive. Do not worry about the food that you need to stay alive. Do not worry about the clothes that you need to wear." 
Luke12:23 Your life is more important than the food that you eat. Your body is more important than your clothes. 
Luke12:24 Think about the birds. They do not plant seeds in the ground. They do not cut down plants to eat. They have no buildings to store food. But God gives them food to eat. You are much more valuable than the birds. 
Luke12:25 Even if you always worry about your life, you cannot make it as much as one hour longer!" 
Luke12:26 No, you cannot even do a small thing like that. So, if you are always worrying about the things that you need, will that really help you?" 
Luke12:27 Think about how the wild flowers grow. They do not do work or make clothes for themselves. But I tell you this about them. Even one wild flower is more beautiful than King Solomon was. And King Solomon wore the most beautiful clothes. 
Luke12:28 It is God that gives beautiful clothes even to the grass. One day the grass is growing in the field, but the next day people will cut it and burn it. God will certainly take care of you, much more than he takes care of the grass. You should trust him more than you do!" 
Luke12:29 Do not always be thinking about the food and drink that you need. Do not worry about things like that. 
Luke12:30 People who do not know God are always trying to get these things. But as for you, your Father God knows that you need them." 
Luke12:31 Instead, always think about the things that are important in the kingdom of God. Then God will also give you the things that you need each day." 
Luke12:32 You are only a small group of people, but do not be afraid. Your Father God has given his kingdom to you. He is happy to do that." 
Luke12:33 So sell what you have and give the money to poor people. Then you will have valuable things in heaven. That is like keeping your money in a bag that will never have any holes in it. There, the value of your things will never become less. There, nobody can take them from you. Insects cannot destroy them." 
Luke12:34 If you store your valuable things in heaven, that is the place that you will be thinking a lot about.’" 
Luke12:35 Jesus said, ‘Always be ready for me to return. Be like people that are ready to start work at any time. They have put on their clothes so that they are ready for work. And they have lit their lamps." 
Luke12:36 You must be like servants that are waiting for their master to arrive. When he returns home from the marriage party, he will knock on the door. His servants should be ready to open it for him immediately." 
Luke12:37 Those servants will be very happy if their master finds them awake. I tell you this. The master will dress himself to give them food. He will say to them, “Sit at the table. I will come to serve you.”" 
Luke12:38 The master may arrive in the middle of the night. He may even arrive just before the sun rises. But, if the master finds them awake and ready, the servants will be happy." 
Luke12:39 You can be sure about this. The master of a house does not know when a man might come to rob him. If he knew the time, he would keep awake. He would not let the robber come into his house and take away his things." 
Luke12:40 You also must be ready. The Son of Man will come at a time when you are not thinking about it.’ 
Luke12:41 Peter asked Jesus, ‘Master, are you only telling this story to us, your disciples? Or is this story for everyone to hear?’" 
Luke12:42 Jesus replied, ‘Be a wise servant. Be someone that the master can trust. The master will choose a man like that. He will say to him, “Rule over my house and my other servants. Give them the food that they need at the right time.”" 
Luke12:43 That servant will be very happy when his master comes home. His master will see that he has done everything well. 
Luke12:44 Let me tell you what will happen. The master will give that servant authority to rule over everything in his house. 
Luke12:45 But another servant might say to himself, “My master is very late. He will not come yet.” Then he begins to hit the other servants, both the men and the women. He eats too much, and he drinks too much. He becomes drunk." 
Luke12:46 Then the master of that servant will come home and he will surprise the servant. The servant did not think that his master would come home on that day or at that time. Then the master will punish that servant very much. He will put the servant with those people who do not obey him. 
Luke12:47 A servant may know what his master wants him to do. Then he should prepare himself and do that. If he does not do it, his master will punish him very much. He will hit him many times." 
Luke12:48 But another servant perhaps does not know what his master wants him to do. So he does wrong things. The master will punish him because he did those wrong things. But he will not hit him so many times. If God gives a lot to somebody, he will want a lot back in return. And God will want to receive much more from the person who has received the most." 
Luke12:49 I came to start a fire on earth. I would be happy if that fire were already burning. 
Luke12:50 I have a baptism of pain to receive. I cannot rest until this has happened. 
Luke12:51 I did not come into the world so that everyone will agree with each other. No, I tell you. I came to put people against one another." 
Luke12:52 From now on, because of me, five people in a family will be against each other. Two people will be against the other three. Three of them will be against the other two." 
Luke12:53 They will not agree together. The father will be against his son and the son will be against his father. The mother will be against her daughter and the daughter will be against her mother. The mother will be against her son's wife. And the son's wife will be against her husband's mother.’ 
Luke12:54 Then Jesus said to the crowd, ‘If you see a cloud that is rising in the west, immediately you say, “It will rain.” And the rain does come." 
Luke12:55 Sometimes you see that the south wind is blowing. So you say, “It will be very hot weather.” And the hot weather does come." 
Luke12:56 You are hypocrites! You look at the earth and the sky, and you know what weather will come. So look at the special things that are happening near you now. They show you what will soon happen. But you do not understand what they are showing you. Why not?" 
Luke12:57 You should know what is right. And you should do it. 
Luke12:58 Someone might say to you, “You have done something wrong against me.” So he takes hold of you to go to the judge. Before you arrive at the office of the judge, try to agree with this man. Try to make things right again. If you do not agree together about the problem, it may be bad for you. The judge will give you to his officer. The officer will put you in prison." 
Luke12:59 I tell you. You will remain in prison until you have paid all the money, even the last small coin.’" 
Luke13:1 At that time, some people spoke to Jesus. They told him what happened to some people from Galilee. They had been offering animals as a sacrifice to God. Pilate sent some soldiers to kill them." 
Luke13:2 Jesus replied, ‘Think about those people from Galilee. Perhaps you think that they had done more bad things than other people from Galilee. Do you think that this is why they had to die?" 
Luke13:3 No! But I tell you this. All of you have done many bad things. So you must change how you live and you must turn to God. If you do not, you will also die as they did." 
Luke13:4 You also remember what happened to those 18 people in Siloam. A high building fell down and it killed them. Perhaps you think that they had done more bad things than the other people in Jerusalem. 
Luke13:5 But I tell you, no, they had not. All of you have also done many bad things. So you must change how you live and you must turn to God. If you do not, you will also die as they did.’" 
Luke13:6 Then Jesus told this story. ‘A man had a garden where he grew fruit. He had planted a fig tree there. But when he came to look for fruit on it, he could not find any." 
Luke13:7 So he said to his gardener, “Look, for three years, I have hoped to find fruit on this tree. But I have never found any. So cut the tree down! I do not think that it should be here. It is wasting the ground.”" 
Luke13:8 The gardener replied, “Master, please leave the tree in the ground for one more year. Let me dig around it and let me put some good soil there." 
Luke13:9 If I do that, next year, the fig tree may have some fruit on it. If it does not, I will cut it down for you.” ’" 
Luke13:10 One day, Jesus was teaching in a Jewish meeting place. It was the Jewish day of rest." 
Luke13:11 There was a woman there who had a bad spirit inside her. It had lived in her for 18 years and it had made her weak. Her back was bent. She could not stand up straight. 
Luke13:12 Jesus saw her and he called her to come to him. He said, ‘Woman, your illness has left you.’" 
Luke13:13 He put his hands on her and immediately she could stand up straight. She praised God. 
Luke13:14 But the leader of the meeting place was angry because Jesus had made a sick person well on their day of rest. He said to the people there, ‘There are six days each week when we should work. Come on any of those days and get well. But you should not come on our day of rest to get well.’" 
Luke13:15 The Lord Jesus said to him, ‘You are wrong. You teach one thing but you do something different yourselves. On the day of rest you will undo the rope on your ox or your donkey and take it outside. You then give it water to drink. Is that not true?" 
Luke13:16 Now look at this woman. She belongs to the family of Abraham. But a bad spirit from the devil has made her ill for 18 years. It is like he has tied her up. So it must be right to make her free on our day of rest.’ 
Luke13:17 These words made the people who spoke against him feel ashamed. But the other people there were very happy. They were happy because they had seen Jesus do many good and powerful things. 
Luke13:18 Then Jesus said to them, ‘I will tell you a story about the kingdom of God to show what it is like." 
Luke13:19 It is like a very small seed of the mustard plant. A man took this seed and he planted it in his garden. The seed grew and it became a tree. It was so big that birds came and made their nests among its branches.’ 
Luke13:20 Jesus then said, ‘Here is another example of what the kingdom of God is like." 
Luke13:21 It is like how yeast works. A woman took some of it and she mixed it into three large bowls of flour. Then the yeast caused all the flour to become very big.’ 
Luke13:22 Jesus was continuing his journey towards Jerusalem. On the way, he went through towns and villages. In each one, he taught the people." 
Luke13:23 One day, somebody asked him, ‘Sir, will God save only a small number of people?’" 
Luke13:24 Jesus said to the people there, ‘Do your best to go in through the narrow door. I tell you that many people will want to get in there. But they will not be able to go through it." 
Luke13:25 Soon the master of the house will get up and he will shut the door. And then you may still be standing outside the door. You will knock and you will say, “Master, please open the door for us to come in.” But the master will reply, “I do not know you. I do not know where you come from.”" 
Luke13:26 Then you will begin to say, “But Master, we had meals with you. You taught us in the streets of our villages.”" 
Luke13:27 But he will tell you, “No! I really do not know you. I do not know where you come from. You have done evil things, so go away from me, all of you!”" 
Luke13:28 Then you will weep very much because you are standing outside. You will bite your teeth together. You will see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the place where God rules. You will also see all God's prophets there. But God will shut you outside." 
Luke13:29 At that time, people will come from everywhere in the world, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. They will all come to take their place in the kingdom of God. There they will sit down together to eat a great meal." 
Luke13:30 Listen! At that time, some people that are not important now will become the most important. And some people that are now the most important will not be important then.’" 
Luke13:31 At that moment, some Pharisees came to Jesus. They said to him, ‘Go away from here, because Herod wants to kill you.’" 
Luke13:32 Jesus replied, ‘Herod is a bad man. Tell him this: “I am still causing bad spirits to come out of people. I am still making sick people well again. I will continue to do all these things for some more days. On the third day I will have finished my work.”" 
Luke13:33 Anyway, I need to continue my journey for some more days. If they want to kill one of God's prophets, it has to happen in Jerusalem." 
Luke13:34 Jerusalem, Jerusalem! Your people have killed God's prophets. And they have thrown stones to kill other people that God has sent to you. Many times, I have wanted to bring all of your people near to me. A female bird covers her babies with her body to make them safe. But you would not let me keep you from danger like that." 
Luke13:35 So listen! God will leave your city. I tell you this. You will not see me again until the day when you say, “May the Lord God bless the man who comes with his authority!” ’" 
Luke14:1 One Jewish day of rest, Jesus went into the house of a leader of the Pharisees. This man had asked him to come and to eat a meal with him. The people there were all watching him carefully." 
Luke14:2 A sick man came up to Jesus. His arms and legs had grown fat, because they were full of water." 
Luke14:3 So Jesus spoke to the Pharisees and to the teachers of God's Law. He asked them, ‘Is it right for us to make someone well on our day of rest, or not?’" 
Luke14:4 But they would not say anything. So Jesus took the sick man and he made him well again. Then he let him go away. 
Luke14:5 Then Jesus asked the people, ‘Maybe one of you has a son or an animal that falls into a well on our day of rest. What will you do? You will pull the child or the animal out of the well immediately.’" 
Luke14:6 When Jesus said this, they could not say anything else." 
Luke14:7 Jesus watched how people chose the best places to sit at the meal. So he told this story to the people who were sitting there: 
Luke14:8 ‘When someone asks you to come to a special meal, do not sit in the best place. A man that is more important than you may come later." 
Luke14:9 Then the man who asked you to the meal might say to you, “Give the best place to this man.” Then you will feel ashamed that you sat there. You will have to move to the lowest place and sit there." 
Luke14:10 Instead, when someone asks you to a meal, you should do this. Go and sit in the least important place. Then the man who asked you to the meal will see you there. And he will say to you, “My friend, move up here to a better place.” Everyone who is there at the meal will see this. So they will know that you are an important person." 
Luke14:11 It will be the same in the kingdom of God. Some people lift themselves up to be important. God will bring all of them down low. Other people are humble. God will lift up those people to a good place.’ 
Luke14:12 Then Jesus said to the man who had asked him to the meal, ‘When you give a meal at midday or in the evening, do not ask your friends to come. Do not ask your brothers or your family. And do not ask the rich people that live near you to come. If you do, they will later ask you to eat at their house. This will pay you for the meal that you gave to them." 
Luke14:13 Instead, when you prepare a big meal, you should ask the poor people to come. Ask people who cannot walk very well or who have only one arm or one leg. Ask blind people to come." 
Luke14:14 Then God will bless you. Those people cannot pay you for the meal that you have given to them. Instead, God will pay you when he causes people who are right with him to become alive again.’" 
Luke14:15 The people who were sitting at the meal heard what Jesus said. One of them said to Jesus, ‘One day, there will be a big meal in the kingdom of God. How happy are those people who will eat together at that big meal.’" 
Luke14:16 Jesus told this story to him: ‘One day an important man prepared a big meal. He asked many people to come to eat in his house. 
Luke14:17 When the meal was ready, he sent his servant out to tell those people, “Come now, the meal is ready for you.”" 
Luke14:18 But then each person gave a reason why he could not come to the meal. The first man said, “I have just bought a field, so I must go out and see it. Please say that I am sorry. Tell your master that I cannot come to his meal.”" 
Luke14:19 The next man said, “I have bought five pairs of oxen. So I am now going out to see if they work well together. Please say that I am sorry. Tell your master that I cannot come to his meal.”" 
Luke14:20 The third man said, “I have just married a wife. That is why I cannot come to the meal.” " 
Luke14:21 The servant went back to his master. He told him what everyone had said. Then the master of the house was very angry. He said to his servant, “Go out quickly to every street in the town. Bring the poor people here. Bring people who cannot walk well, and those who are blind.”" 
Luke14:22 The servant did that. Then he came back to his master. He said, “Sir, I have asked all those people to come to your meal. But there are still some places at the table.”" 
Luke14:23 So the master said to his servant, “Go to the roads and fields outside the town, and look for people there. Command them all to come here, so that my house will be full." 
Luke14:24 But I tell you this. None of the people that I asked at the beginning will eat any of my food.” ’ 
Luke14:25 Crowds of many people were travelling with Jesus on his journey. So he turned and he said to them," 
Luke14:26 ‘If someone wants to obey me, he must live like this. He must love me more than he loves his own father and mother. He must love me more than he loves his wife and his children. He must love me more than he loves his brothers and his sisters. He must even love me more than he loves himself. If he does not do that, he cannot be one of my disciples." 
Luke14:27 He must live like a person that carries his own cross to go and die. If he is not ready to die for me, he cannot be one of my disciples." 
Luke14:28 Here is an example. Perhaps one of you wants to build a tall building. Before you start to build, you will think carefully about it. You will decide how much it will cost. Then you need to know if you have enough money to finish the work." 
Luke14:29 If you do not do this, you may not have enough money. You may put the first stones in the ground, but then you cannot finish the building. If you have to stop, other people will laugh at you. They will say to each other," 
Luke14:30 “That man is a fool. He started to build, but he could not finish the work.” " 
Luke14:31 In the same way, perhaps a king wants to fight a war against another king. But before he goes to fight, he thinks carefully about it. He asks himself, “Can I win this war? My army is large, with 10,000 men. But the other king has twice as many soldiers in his army." 
Luke14:32 No, I cannot do it. I know I cannot win against the other king.” So, while the stronger king is far away, he will send a man to him with a message. He will tell the other king that he does not want to fight. He will ask him what he can do so that they become friends together.’" 
Luke14:33 Jesus then said, ‘It is like that for all of you, if you want to be my disciples. You must leave behind everything that belongs to you." 
Luke14:34 Remember this. Salt is good. But if it is not salty any more, it is no longer useful. You cannot make it salty again." 
Luke14:35 You would not even put it on your field. It cannot make the soil good. You would just throw it away. You have ears. So listen well to what I say.’ 
Luke15:1 At that time, many bad people and men who took taxes from people were coming to listen to Jesus." 
Luke15:2 The Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law did not like this. They said, ‘This man is friendly with people that do not obey God. He even eats with them in their homes.’" 
Luke15:3 So Jesus told them this story: 
Luke15:4 ‘Think about a man who has 100 sheep. He may lose one of them. What does he do then? He leaves all his other sheep in the fields. Then he goes and he looks for the sheep that has become lost. He looks until he finds it. 
Luke15:5 When he finds the one sheep, he is very happy. He lifts it up and he puts it across his shoulders." 
Luke15:6 Then he carries it back home. He speaks to all his friends and to the people that live near him. He says, “I have found the sheep that I lost. So come to my house and we can all be happy together.”" 
Luke15:7 I tell you this. When one person turns back to God, it causes a lot of joy in heaven. There is more joy about that one person, than about 99 people who already obey God.’" 
Luke15:8 Jesus told them another story: ‘Now think about a woman who has ten valuable silver coins. She may lose one of them. What does she do then? She lights a lamp and she sweeps inside her house. She looks carefully until she finds the coin. 
Luke15:9 Then she speaks to all her friends and to those that live near to her. She says to them, “I have found the coin that I lost. So come to my house and we can all be happy together.”" 
Luke15:10 In the same way, I tell you this. When one person turns back to God, it causes a lot of joy among God's angels in heaven.’" 
Luke15:11 Jesus then told another story: ‘There was a man who had two sons. 
Luke15:12 The younger son went to his father and said to him, “Father, please give me now my part of your things.” So the father gave both sons the part of his things that each of them should have." 
Luke15:13 After a few days, the younger son sold what his father had given to him. Then he took all the money and he left home. He went on a long journey to a country far away. There he did whatever he wanted to do and he wasted all his money." 
Luke15:14 After he had spent everything, there was a famine in that country. So the young man had nothing to eat." 
Luke15:15 He went to a man who lived in that country to ask him for help. So the man sent him into his fields to give food to his pigs. 
Luke15:16 Nobody gave the young man anything to eat. He even wanted to eat the food that the pigs were eating. But he had nothing. 
Luke15:17 Then he began to think about what he had done. He said to himself, “My father has many servants, and they have plenty of food. They have more food than they can eat. But I will die here because I do not have any food." 
Luke15:18 So I will go to my father. I will tell him, ‘I have done bad things against God, and I have done bad things against you." 
Luke15:19 So I am not good enough for you to call me your son any longer. Instead, please accept me as one of your servants.’ ”" 
Luke15:20 So he started off to return to his father. But he was still a long way from the house when his father saw him. The father felt very sorry for his son and he ran towards him. Then he put his arms around his son and he kissed him. 
Luke15:21 The son said to him, “Father, I have done bad things against God and against you. So I am not good enough for you to call me your son.”" 
Luke15:22 But the father said to his servants, “Hurry! Go and bring the most beautiful coat that we have. Put it on him and also put a ring on his finger. Put shoes on his feet." 
Luke15:23 Bring the young cow that we keep ready to eat on a special day. It is already fat. Kill it and prepare it. We will eat a big meal and we will be happy together. 
Luke15:24 I thought that my son was dead. But now he has returned to me and he is alive! I thought that he had left me for ever. But now he has come home.” Then they all began to be happy together. 
Luke15:25 While these things were happening, the older son was working in the field. On his way back to the house, he heard music. People were dancing." 
Luke15:26 So he asked one of the servants, “What is happening?”" 
Luke15:27 The servant replied, “Your brother has returned home. Your father has killed the fat young cow for him. He did this because your brother is alive and he is well.”" 
Luke15:28 When the older brother heard this, he was very angry. He would not go into the house. So his father came out. He said, “Please come into the house and be happy with us.”" 
Luke15:29 But the older son replied, “Listen to me! I have worked very hard for you for many years. I have always obeyed you. But you never killed even a young goat for me so that I could enjoy a meal with my friends." 
Luke15:30 But now this other son of yours has returned. He has wasted all the money that you gave him. He has used it to pay prostitutes. But you have killed the fat young cow to make a feast for him.” 
Luke15:31 The father said to him, “My son, you are always with me. All the things that I have are for you." 
Luke15:32 We thought that your brother was dead. But now he has returned to us alive. We thought that he had left us for ever. But now he has come home. So it is right for us all to be happy together.” ’ 
Luke16:1 Jesus told another story to his disciples: ‘A rich man had a servant who took care of his money and the things in his house. Some people told the rich man that the servant was wasting his things. 
Luke16:2 So the rich man told the servant to come to him. He said to his servant, “I am hearing bad stories about you. So write down everything that you have done with my things. You can no longer take care of these things for me.”" 
Luke16:3 The servant thought, “I must decide what I should do. My master will not let me work for him any longer. I am not strong enough to dig in the ground. I would be ashamed to ask other people for money." 
Luke16:4 But I must have a way to live after I stop working for my master. Now I know! I know what I can do so that people will accept me into their homes.” 
Luke16:5 Many people had a debt that they had not paid back to the master. So the servant told those people to come to him. He asked the first man, “How big is your debt to my master?”" 
Luke16:6 The man replied, “I have to give him 100 barrels of olive oil.” The servant said to him, “Here is the paper with your debt written down on it. Take the paper. Sit down now and write 50 barrels there.”" 
Luke16:7 He asked the next man, “How big is your debt to my master?” The man replied, “I have to give him 100 baskets of wheat.” The servant replied, “Here is the paper with your debt written down on it. Take the paper and write 80 baskets.” ’" 
Luke16:8 Jesus then said, ‘The servant in the story was not an honest man. But his master spoke well about the clever thing that he had done. People who belong to this world are clever in the way that they make friends. They do that better than the people who live in God's light." 
Luke16:9 So I tell you this. Use the money that you have in this world to help other people so that they become your friends. One day you will die and your money will be finished. Then they will welcome you in heaven, your home for ever." 
Luke16:10 If you can trust someone with a very small thing, you can also trust them with bigger things. But if someone is not honest with a very small thing, you cannot trust them with anything bigger." 
Luke16:11 So if people cannot trust you with this world's money, God will not trust you. He will not give you his true riches." 
Luke16:12 And if you have not faithfully taken care of other people's things, God will not give you things for yourself." 
Luke16:13 A slave cannot work for two masters at the same time. Maybe he will hate one of the masters, but he will love the other one. Or he will work well for one master, but he will think bad things about the other one. God and money are like different masters. You cannot work for both of them.’" 
Luke16:14 The Pharisees heard all this. They loved money very much, so they laughed at Jesus." 
Luke16:15 Jesus said to them, ‘You are happy when people give you honour as good people. But God sees inside you. He knows what you are thinking. The things that many people give honour to are the things that God hates.’" 
Luke16:16 Jesus then said, ‘The books of God's Law and God's prophets had authority until John the Baptist came. Since then, God's servants tell people the good news about the kingdom of God. Everyone is now trying to get into that kingdom." 
Luke16:16 Jesus then said, ‘The books of God's Law and God's prophets had authority until John the Baptist came. Since then, God's servants tell people the good news about the kingdom of God. Everyone is now trying to get into that kingdom." 
Luke16:17 But this does not mean that anyone can destroy God's Law. One day, the earth and the sky will finish. But until that time, nobody can remove even a small thing from God's Law." 
Luke16:18 A man must not send his wife away and then marry another woman. If he does that, it is the same as if he had sex with another man's wife. Also, if a woman has left her husband, another man must not marry her. That is the same as if he had sex with another man's wife.’" 
Luke16:19 Jesus then said, ‘At one time, there was a rich man who wore very expensive clothes. He ate big meals every day." 
Luke16:20 There was also a poor man called Lazarus. He had sores all over his body. He lay on the ground outside the gate of the rich man. 
Luke16:21 He was very hungry. He wanted to eat the bits of food that the rich man threw away. Even the dogs came and they tasted the sores on his body. 
Luke16:22 Then Lazarus died and God's angels carried him away. They put him at the side of Abraham in heaven. The rich man then also died and his family buried him in the ground. 
Luke16:23 He went down into the deep hole of death. He was in a lot of pain there. He looked up and he saw Abraham far away in heaven. He also saw Lazarus at Abraham's side. 
Luke16:24 So he shouted out, “Father Abraham, please be kind to me. Please send Lazarus here to help me. I am in great pain because I am in a fire that burns me. Let him put his finger into some water. Then he can use the water to make my mouth cool.”" 
Luke16:25 Abraham replied, “My child, remember the time when you were alive on earth. Remember what happened then. You had many good things, and Lazarus had many bad things. Now I am taking care of Lazarus and you are in pain." 
Luke16:26 But that is not everything. Between you and us, there is a big hole. It is wide and long and deep. There is a reason why that hole is there. Nobody can go across from here to where you are. And nobody can come across here from where you are.”" 
Luke16:27 The rich man said, “If that is true, father Abraham, please send Lazarus to my family." 
Luke16:28 I have five brothers that are still alive. He can tell them not to do the same things as I did. Then they will not also come here when they die. They will not be in great pain, as I am.”" 
Luke16:29 Abraham replied, “They have the books that Moses and God's prophets wrote. Your family should read them and do what they say.”" 
Luke16:30 The rich man said, “That is not enough, father Abraham. But if someone goes to them from among the dead people, they will listen. Then they will turn away from the wrong things that they do.”" 
Luke16:31 But Abraham said to him, “They do not listen to what Moses and God's prophets have said. So they will not believe God's message even if someone comes back from among the dead people.” ’" 
Luke17:1 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Some things in this world will cause people to do wrong things. You can be sure about that. But God will punish anyone who makes these bad things happen." 
Luke17:2 It would be better for that person if someone tied a big stone around his neck and then threw him into the sea. Nobody should ever cause anyone who believes in me to do wrong things, even if they do not seem to be important people." 
Luke17:3 Be careful how you live. If another believer does something wrong, warn him about it. He may say, “I am sorry for what I did. I will not do it again.” If he says that, you must forgive him." 
Luke17:4 Your brother may do a bad thing against you seven times in one day. He may come to you each time and say, “I am sorry for what I did. I will not do it again.” If he does that, you must forgive him every time.’" 
Luke17:5 The apostles said to the Lord Jesus, ‘Help us to trust God more than we do.’" 
Luke17:6 The Lord replied, ‘You may believe in God only a little bit, like a very small seed. Even then, you could say to this tree, “Pull yourself out of the ground and plant yourself in the sea.” Then the tree would obey you." 
Luke17:7 Think about this. You may have a servant that is ploughing your land. Or you may have a servant that is taking care of your sheep. When he comes in from his work in the evening, you would not say to him, “Sit down and eat.”" 
Luke17:8 Instead, you would say to your servant, “Prepare my meal for me. Dress yourself properly and bring the food to me. I will eat and drink first. You can eat when I have finished.”" 
Luke17:9 Servants should do what their masters tell them to do. That is what they should do and their masters do not need to thank them for it. 
Luke17:10 It is the same with you. The Master tells you what you must do. So when you have done all of it, you should say, “We are not special servants who deserve honour. We have only done what we should do.” ’" 
Luke17:11 On his journey to Jerusalem, Jesus was travelling along the border between Samaria and Galilee." 
Luke17:12 When he was going into a village, ten men came towards him. These men had a bad skin disease. They stopped and they stood a long way away from Jesus." 
Luke17:13 They shouted, ‘Jesus, Master, please be kind to us.’" 
Luke17:14 Jesus saw them and he said to them, ‘Go and show yourselves to the priests.’ While they were going on their way, their disease disappeared." 
Luke17:15 One of these ten men saw that Jesus had made him well. He turned back and he praised God in a loud voice. 
Luke17:16 He went down on his knees in front of Jesus and he thanked him. This man was from Samaria. 
Luke17:17 Then Jesus said, ‘I surely made ten men well again. There should be another nine men somewhere!" 
Luke17:18 But only this one man came back to thank God. And he is a foreign man from Samaria!’ 
Luke17:19 Then Jesus said to the man, ‘Stand up and go on your way. You believed in me, so now you are really well.’" 
Luke17:20 Then some Pharisees asked Jesus a question. ‘When will the kingdom of God come here on earth?’ Jesus replied, ‘When God comes to rule in his kingdom, people will not see it with their eyes." 
Luke17:21 Nobody will say, “Look everyone! God is ruling in this place,” or “Look! God is ruling in that place.” No, it is not like that. God's kingdom has already come among you.’" 
Luke17:22 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘The time will soon come when you want to see me, the Son of Man, return to the earth. But you will not see that day." 
Luke17:23 Some people will say to you, “Look, there he is!” or “Here he is!” But do not go out with them to look." 
Luke17:24 When lightning shines, it quickly makes the whole of the sky light from one side to the other. It will be like that on the day when the Son of Man returns." 
Luke17:25 But before this happens, the people of today will refuse to accept me. Because of that, I will suffer very much." 
Luke17:26 Remember what happened when Noah was alive. It will be like that at the time when the Son of Man returns to the earth. 
Luke17:27 In Noah's time, people were eating their meals every day. Men and women continued to marry. They continued to do all this until the day when Noah went into his boat. Then it rained for a long time and there was deep water everywhere. The water killed all the people." 
Luke17:28 The same kind of thing happened when Lot was alive. People in the city of Sodom were eating their meals every day. They were buying and selling things. They were planting their seeds and they were building their houses. 
Luke17:29 But one day God caused fire and burning stones to pour down from the sky. That was the day that Lot went away from Sodom. But all the people who remained in Sodom died. 
Luke17:30 It will happen quickly like that, on the day when I, the Son of Man, show myself clearly." 
Luke17:31 On that day, a person who is up on the roof of his house must not go back down into the house. He must not get his things that are inside the house to take with him. In the same way, people that are working outside in their fields must not go back to their homes." 
Luke17:32 Remember what happened to Lot's wife. 
Luke17:33 Whoever wants to keep his own life safe will lose it. But whoever agrees to lose his life will have true life. 
Luke17:34 I tell you this. At that time, two people will be sleeping in one bed. God will take one of them away but he will leave the other one behind." 
Luke17:35 Two women will be preparing food together in the same place. God will take one of them away but he will leave the other one behind.’ 
Luke17:36  
Luke17:37 Jesus' disciples asked him, ‘ Lord, where will this happen?’ Jesus replied, ‘If a dead body is lying somewhere, vultures will come together in that place.’" 
Luke18:1 Then Jesus told his disciples a story. He wanted to teach them that they must continue to pray always. They must not want to stop. 
Luke18:2 He said to them, ‘In a certain city, there was a judge. He was not afraid of God. He did not respect people." 
Luke18:3 A woman lived in that same city. Her husband had died. She came to the judge many times with a problem. She was saying, “Somebody is doing bad things against me. Please show that I am right and he is wrong.”" 
Luke18:4 For a long time, the judge would not do anything to help her. Later, he thought, “I am not afraid of God. Nor do I respect people." 
Luke18:5 But this woman causes me trouble. If I do not do anything for her, she will continue to come to me again and again. She will make me ill. So I will help her. I will say that she is right.” ’" 
Luke18:6 Jesus then said, ‘This judge was not a good man. But you should think about what he said. He finally decided to help the woman." 
Luke18:7 So God will surely help those that he has chosen to be his children. When they continue to ask him for help, in the day and in the night, he will answer them. He will not wait." 
Luke18:8 I tell you this. He will show that they are right. He will help them quickly. I, the Son of Man, will return to earth. But will I find many people who still believe in me then, or not?’" 
Luke18:9 Jesus told a story to teach some people who thought that they were very good. They thought that they were much better than other people. 
Luke18:10 Jesus said, ‘One day, two men went into the temple to pray. One man was a Pharisee. The other man took taxes from people." 
Luke18:11 The Pharisee stood there by himself. He prayed like this: “Thank you, God, that I am different from all these other people. They are bad people. They rob other people. They have sex with people that they are not married to. Thank you, God, that I am not like this man who takes taxes on behalf of the government." 
Luke18:12 I fast for two days of each week. I give you one tenth of everything that I receive.” 
Luke18:13 But the other man stood far away. He would not even look up towards heaven. He was hitting his body with his hands to show how sorry he was. He prayed like this: “Please, God, be kind to me. I have done many bad things.” ’" 
Luke18:14 Jesus then said, ‘Let me tell you about these men when they went home. The man that took taxes from people was now right with God. But the Pharisee was still guilty. Some people lift themselves up to be important. But God will bring all of them down low. Other people are humble. God will lift up those people to a good place.’" 
Luke18:15 People were also bringing babies to Jesus. They wanted him to put his hands on each child's head. But Jesus' disciples told the people that they should not do that. 
Luke18:16 Then Jesus told the children to come to him. He said to his disciples, ‘Let the children come to me. Do not try to stop them. People must become like these children so that God can rule their lives. That is what the kingdom of God is like." 
Luke18:17 I tell you this. A person must become like a little child for God to rule in his life. If he does not become like a child, he will not come into the kingdom of God.’" 
Luke18:18 A Jewish ruler came to Jesus and asked him, ‘Good Teacher, what must I do so that I can live with God for ever?’" 
Luke18:19 Jesus asked him, ‘Why do you say that I am good? Only God is good. Nobody else." 
Luke18:20 You know God's commands: “Do not have sex with anyone that you are not married to. Do not kill anyone. Do not rob anyone. Do not say things that are not true about people. Love your father and your mother, and obey them.” ’" 
Luke18:21 The man replied, ‘I have obeyed all these laws since I was a young man.’" 
Luke18:22 Jesus heard what the man said. He replied, ‘There is still just one thing that you must do. You must sell everything that you have. Then give the money to poor people. If you do that, you will have many valuable things in heaven. Then come back and be my disciple.’" 
Luke18:23 When the ruler heard this, he became very sad. This was because he was a very rich man." 
Luke18:24 Jesus saw that the ruler had become sad. He said, ‘It is very difficult for rich people to let God rule in their lives." 
Luke18:25 The hole in a needle is very small. A camel cannot go through it! But it is even more difficult for a rich person to let God rule in their life.’ 
Luke18:26 The people who were listening to Jesus said, ‘So perhaps God will not save anyone!’" 
Luke18:27 Jesus replied, ‘God can do things that are impossible for people to do.’" 
Luke18:28 Peter then said to Jesus, ‘Look! We have left everything that we had. Now we are your disciples.’" 
Luke18:29 Jesus said to them, ‘I tell you this. Some people have left their homes. Or they may have left their wife or their brothers. Or they may have left their parents or their children. They have done this to work for the kingdom of God." 
Luke18:30 Now, in this world, God will give these people many more things than they have left behind. And in the future world they will live for ever with God.’" 
Luke18:31 Jesus took the 12 disciples away from the other people. He said to them, ‘Listen! We are going to Jerusalem. There, many bad things will happen to me. All the things that God's prophets wrote long ago about the Son of Man will now happen to me." 
Luke18:32 The Jewish leaders will put me under the power of people who are not Jews. They will laugh at me. They will say bad things against me. They will spit at me. 
Luke18:33 They will hit me with whips. Finally, they will kill me. But after three days, I will become alive again.’" 
Luke18:34 The 12 disciples did not understand any of these things. What Jesus said did not mean anything to them. So they did not know what Jesus was talking about. 
Luke18:35 When Jesus was getting near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting at the side of the road. He was asking people to give him money." 
Luke18:36 The blind man heard a large crowd of people as they went along the road. So he asked the people near him what was happening. 
Luke18:37 They told him, ‘Jesus from Nazareth is walking past.’" 
Luke18:38 The man began to shout out. ‘Jesus! Son of David! Please be kind to me and help me.’ 
Luke18:39 The people who were walking at the front of the crowd were angry with him. They told him that he should be quiet. But he started to shout even louder, ‘Son of David! Please help me!’" 
Luke18:40 Then Jesus stopped. He said to the people, ‘Bring that man to me.’ When the man came near, Jesus asked him," 
Luke18:41 ‘What do you want me to do for you?’ The blind man replied, ‘Sir, I want to see again.’" 
Luke18:42 Jesus said to him, ‘Now see again! You are well now because you believed in me.’" 
Luke18:43 Immediately, the man could see again. He started to follow Jesus along the road. He was praising God as he went. Many people saw what had happened. They also praised God." 
Luke19:1 Jesus went into Jericho and he was walking through the city. 
Luke19:2 There was a man there called Zacchaeus. He was a leader of the men who took taxes from people. He had become very rich. 
Luke19:3 He was trying to see who Jesus was. There was a big crowd there and he was a small man. So he could not see Jesus. 
Luke19:4 He ran on in front of the crowd and he climbed up a fig tree. He could see Jesus more easily from the tree, because Jesus would walk along that way." 
Luke19:5 When Jesus came to the tree, he looked up at Zacchaeus. He said to him, ‘Zacchaeus, come down quickly. Today I must stay in your home.’" 
Luke19:6 So Zacchaeus came down immediately and took Jesus into his home. He was very happy about this. 
Luke19:7 The people saw what had happened. They were not happy and they were saying, ‘Jesus has gone to stay in the home of a man who does bad things.’" 
Luke19:8 Zacchaeus stood up in front of everyone. He said to the Lord Jesus, ‘Listen, Master! I will give half of all the things that I have to poor people. I may have cheated some people. If so, I will give back four times as much money as I took from them.’" 
Luke19:9 Jesus said to him, ‘Today God has saved people in this home. Now Zacchaeus also belongs to the true family of Abraham." 
Luke19:10 I, the Son of Man, came to look for people who are far away from God. They are in danger and I have come to save them.’" 
Luke19:11 While the people were still listening, Jesus told them a story. He did this because the people had wrong thoughts about the kingdom of God. Jesus was now getting near to Jerusalem. So the people with him were thinking that God's kingdom would soon come." 
Luke19:12 Jesus said to them, ‘An important man left his home and he travelled a long way to another country. He went there to receive authority to rule his own country. After that, he would return home and he would be king." 
Luke19:13 Before he left, he asked ten of his servants to come to him. He gave each of them ten bags of silver coins. He told them, “Use this money to get more money for me while I am away.”" 
Luke19:14 But the people who lived in this man's country did not like him. So they sent some of their people to the foreign country with a message. They said, “We do not want this man to rule as king over us.”" 
Luke19:15 Then the man returned home and he was now their king. He asked his ten servants who had received the money to come to him. He wanted to know how they had used the money and how much more money they had now. 
Luke19:16 The first servant came to him and said, “Master, your money has produced ten more bags of silver coins for you.”" 
Luke19:17 The king was happy and said to his servant, “You have done well. You are a good servant that I can trust. You have used a small amount of money well. So now you will rule over ten cities.”" 
Luke19:18 The second servant came and he said, “Master, your money has made five more bags of silver coins.”" 
Luke19:19 The king replied, “You will rule over five cities.”" 
Luke19:20 Then another servant came. He said, “Master, here is your money. I put it away in a piece of cloth to keep it safe." 
Luke19:21 I did this because I was afraid of you. You tell people what they should do all the time. You take things that do not belong to you. You take food from fields where you did not plant any seed.” 
Luke19:22 The king replied, “You are a very bad servant! I will use your own words to show you that you have done the wrong thing. You say that I tell people what they should do all the time. You say that I take things that do not belong to me. You say that I take food from fields where I did not plant any seed. If you know all that about me," 
Luke19:23 you should have put my money into the bank. Then, when I came home, I would have received my money back, with some extra money.”" 
Luke19:24 Some other servants were standing near to their master. He said to them, “Take the money from this bad servant. Give it to the servant who has 10 bags of silver coins.”" 
Luke19:25 But they replied, “Master, that servant already has ten bags of money.”" 
Luke19:26 The king said, “Let me tell you this. Some people have received good things. They will all receive more. Some other people have nothing. Those people will lose even the little bit that they do have." 
Luke19:27 Now I must punish these other people who did not want me to rule over them. Bring them here and kill them in front of me.” ’ 
Luke19:28 When Jesus had said all this, he went on in front of them. He was going towards Jerusalem." 
Luke19:29 He was getting near to two villages called Bethphage and Bethany, on the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two of his disciples to go further." 
Luke19:30 He told them, ‘Go into the village that is in front of you. When you arrive there, you will find a young donkey that someone has tied there. Nobody has yet ridden on it. Undo the rope and bring the donkey here to me." 
Luke19:31 Someone may ask you, “Why are you taking the donkey?” Then say to them, “The Master needs it.” ’" 
Luke19:32 The two disciples went into the village. They saw everything there that Jesus had told them about. 
Luke19:33 While they were taking the young donkey, some men spoke to them. The donkey belonged to them. They asked the disciples, ‘Why are you taking the donkey?’" 
Luke19:34 The disciples replied, ‘The Master needs it.’" 
Luke19:35 They brought the donkey to Jesus. They put their coats on its back. Then they helped Jesus to sit on it. 
Luke19:36 While he was riding along, the people were putting their coats down on the road in front of him." 
Luke19:37 Jesus came to the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives. The whole crowd of his disciples were very happy. They began to praise God with loud voices. They thanked him for all the great things that they had seen. 
Luke19:38 They said: ‘May the Lord God bless the king who comes with his authority! May everything be well in heaven! We praise our great God above!’ 
Luke19:39 Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, stop your disciples from saying these things.’" 
Luke19:40 Jesus replied, ‘Let me tell you this. If these people were quiet, the stones of the city would shout out instead!’" 
Luke19:41 When Jesus got near to Jerusalem, he looked at the city. He cried because he felt very sorry for the people in it." 
Luke19:42 He said, ‘You needed to know what would really help you. Then you could have lived in peace. But now you are unable to understand properly." 
Luke19:43 As a result, days of trouble will come to you. Your enemies will build a wall around the city. They will shut you in completely and they will not let you leave." 
Luke19:44 So your enemies will knock you down. They will completely destroy your city and all the people who live in it. They will not leave even one stone on top of another stone. You did not understand that God had come to save you at this time. That is why these bad things will happen to you.’ 
Luke19:45 Jesus went into the yard of the temple. Some people were selling things there. He began to make them all leave that place. 
Luke19:46 He said to them, ‘The Bible says, “God's house will be a place where people come to pray.” But you have changed it into a place where robbers meet.’" 
Luke19:47 Jesus was teaching every day in the temple. The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law wanted to kill him. Some other important people also wanted to kill him. 
Luke19:48 But all the people were listening to Jesus very carefully. They wanted to hear everything that he was saying. So those leaders did not know how they could kill him. 
Luke20:1 One day, Jesus was teaching people in the yard of the temple. He was telling people the good news about God. Then the leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law came to him. With them were some other important Jews." 
Luke20:2 The Jewish leaders asked him, ‘Tell us what authority you have to do these things. Who gave you the authority to do them?’" 
Luke20:3 Jesus replied, ‘I will also ask you a question. Tell me the answer." 
Luke20:4 John baptized people. Did God give him the authority to do this? Or did men tell him to do it?’ 
Luke20:4 John baptized people. Did God give him the authority to do this? Or did men tell him to do it?’ 
Luke20:5 The Jewish leaders talked to each other about Jesus' question. They said, ‘We could say that God gave John his authority. But if we say that, Jesus will say to us, “Then you should have believed John.”" 
Luke20:5 The Jewish leaders talked to each other about Jesus' question. They said, ‘We could say that God gave John his authority. But if we say that, Jesus will say to us, “Then you should have believed John.”" 
Luke20:6 But we cannot say that John received his authority from people. Then all the people would throw stones at us to kill us. They are sure that John was a prophet from God.’ 
Luke20:6 But we cannot say that John received his authority from people. Then all the people would throw stones at us to kill us. They are sure that John was a prophet from God.’ 
Luke20:7 So the Jewish leaders answered Jesus, ‘We do not know who gave John his authority.’" 
Luke20:7 So the Jewish leaders answered Jesus, ‘We do not know who gave John his authority.’" 
Luke20:8 Jesus said to them, ‘You will not answer my question. So I will not tell you what authority I have to do these things.’" 
Luke20:9 Then Jesus began to tell this story to the people. He said, ‘A man planted vines in a vineyard to grow grapes there. He found some farmers to work in the vineyard for him. Then he went away to another country and he stayed there for a long time." 
Luke20:10 At the time for the harvest, the man sent a servant to speak to the farmers. He wanted them to give him his fruit from the vines. But the farmers hit the servant with sticks and they sent him away with nothing." 
Luke20:11 The master sent another servant to go to the farmers. They hit him with sticks too, and they did other bad things to him. They also sent him away with nothing." 
Luke20:12 The master then sent a third servant to the farmers. They also hurt him very much, and they threw him out of the vineyard." 
Luke20:13 Then the master of the vineyard said to himself, “I know what I will do. I will send my own son to go to them. I love him very much. Perhaps they will respect him.”" 
Luke20:14 But the farmers saw the son coming. They said to each other, “This is the master's own son. When our master dies, the farm will belong to his son. So we should kill the son and then the farm will belong to us.”" 
Luke20:15 So they threw the son out of the vineyard and they killed him.’ Jesus asked, ‘Then what will the master of the vineyard do to those farmers?" 
Luke20:16 I tell you, he will come to those farmers and he will kill them. Then he will give the vineyard to other people to take care of it.’ When the people heard this, they replied, ‘That must never happen!’" 
Luke20:17 Jesus then looked at the people and he said, ‘You say that this must not happen. But you have read this in the Bible and you should know what it means: “The builders refused to use a certain stone. They thought that it had no value. But now that stone has become the most important stone at the corner of the building." 
Luke20:18 When a person falls onto that stone, it will break his body into pieces. When that stone falls on top of someone, it will destroy him completely.” ’" 
Luke20:19 The teachers of God's Law and the leaders of the priests knew that Jesus had told this story about them. They were the bad farmers in the story. So they wanted to take hold of Jesus immediately. But they did not do it, because they were afraid of the people." 
Luke20:20 So this is what they did to catch Jesus. They sent people to ask him difficult questions. These people pretended to be honest, but they wanted to deceive Jesus. They wanted to make him say something wrong. Then they would take him to the ruler of the city to punish him." 
Luke20:21 So these people went to Jesus. They said, ‘Teacher, everything that you say and everything that you teach is right. We know that. You teach everyone the same true message about what God wants us to do. You do not say something different to an important person to make him happy." 
Luke20:22 So tell us your answer to this question: Should we pay our taxes to the Roman ruler, Caesar? Is it right to give that money to him, or not?’" 
Luke20:23 Jesus knew that these men were not really honest. They wanted to make him say something wrong. 
Luke20:24 So he said to them, ‘Show me a coin. Tell me, whose picture is on this coin? Whose name is on it?’ The men replied, ‘It is Caesar's picture and Caesar's name.’" 
Luke20:25 Jesus then said to them, ‘So you should give to Caesar the things that belong to Caesar. And give to God the things that belong to God.’" 
Luke20:26 So the Jewish leaders could not make Jesus say anything wrong. They were very surprised at his answer to their question. They could not say anything more against him. All the people who were there saw this. 
Luke20:27 Then some of the Sadducees came to see Jesus. The Sadducees do not believe that anyone becomes alive again after they die. 
Luke20:28 They wanted to ask Jesus a question. They said to him, ‘Teacher. Moses wrote this in the Bible for us: “A man may die and leave behind a wife but no children. Then that man's brother must marry the widow. Their children will be called the children of the brother who died.”" 
Luke20:29 But once there were seven brothers. The oldest brother married a woman. Then he died before they had any children. 
Luke20:30 So the second brother married the widow. But that brother also died without children. 
Luke20:31 Then the third brother married this woman. The same thing happened to all seven brothers. They all died but they had no children. 
Luke20:32 After all this, the woman also died." 
Luke20:33 You teach that one day dead people will become alive again. On that day, whose wife will that woman be? She had married all seven of those brothers.’" 
Luke20:34 Jesus answered them, ‘Men and women who are alive in this world are the ones who get married." 
Luke20:35 But God accepts some people who deserve to live with him in the future. He will raise them up after they have died. These people will not marry. They will not have husbands or wives. 
Luke20:36 They cannot die any more. This is because they will live as the angels live in heaven. They are children of God. He has made them alive again to live with him. 
Luke20:37 You should know that God makes dead people become alive again. Moses showed this in his report about the bush in the wilderness. He told us that our Lord God is the God of Abraham. He is the God of Isaac. And he is the God of Jacob. 
Luke20:38 But God is not the God of people who are dead. He is the God of people who are alive. For God, all people continue to be alive.’" 
Luke20:39 Some of the teachers of God's Law agreed with Jesus. They said, ‘Teacher, that was a very good answer.’" 
Luke20:40 After that, they were all afraid to ask Jesus any more questions." 
Luke20:41 Jesus said to them, ‘Why do people say that the Messiah will be King David's son?" 
Luke20:42 David himself said this in the book of Psalms: “The Lord God said to my Lord, Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies." 
Luke20:43 Then you will be able to put your feet on them.” 
Luke20:44 You see here that David calls the Messiah his Lord. So can you really say that the Messiah is David's son?’ 
Luke20:45 All the people were listening to Jesus. Jesus then said to his disciples," 
Luke20:46 ‘Be careful not to live like the teachers of God's Law. They want people to think that they are important. So they walk about in beautiful long clothes. They like people to praise them in the market place. They choose to sit in the best seats in the meeting place. They like to sit in the most important places at special meals. 
Luke20:47 They take things away from women after their husbands have died, even their houses. Then they pray for a long time so that other people will praise them. Because they do these things, God will punish these men much more than other people.’" 
Luke21:1 Then Jesus looked up and he saw something that was happening in the temple. There was a box for money there. Many rich people were putting their gifts of money into the box. 
Luke21:2 Then he saw a woman who was coming there. She was a widow and she was very poor. She put two small coins into the box. They had only a little value 
Luke21:3 Jesus said, ‘Let me tell you this. This poor woman has put a bigger gift into the box than all the other people have put in there." 
Luke21:4 All those rich people have plenty of money. They only gave a small part of that. But this woman has almost nothing. She put everything that she had into the box. That money was what she needed to live.’ 
Luke21:5 Some of Jesus' disciples were talking about the temple. They spoke about the many beautiful stones in the walls. They also spoke about the many gifts to God that people had put there. 
Luke21:6 Jesus said to them, ‘You can see all these beautiful things now. But a day is coming when enemies will completely destroy it all. Not even one stone will remain on top of another stone.’" 
Luke21:7 They asked him, ‘Teacher, when will all these things happen? What signs will show us that they will soon happen?’" 
Luke21:8 Jesus replied. ‘Be careful! Some people will tell you things that are not true. Do not believe them. Many people will say that they have come on my behalf. They will say, “I am the Messiah” They will say, “Now is the time!” Do not agree with those people." 
Luke21:9 You will hear about wars and about fights against rulers. Do not be afraid. Those things must happen first, but the end of everything will not happen immediately.’" 
Luke21:10 Jesus then said to them, ‘People from one country will attack the people from another country. Kings and their armies will fight against other kings and their armies." 
Luke21:11 The ground will shake with great earthquakes. In many different places, people will be hungry, with no food. People will suffer with bad diseases. Things that show God's power will happen in the sky so that people are afraid." 
Luke21:12 But before all those things happen, people will take hold of you. They will cause you to suffer. They will take you to the leaders in their meeting places and they will put you in prisons. They will make you stand in front of kings and rulers. All this will happen because you are my disciples." 
Luke21:13 This will be the time to tell people the good news about me. 
Luke21:14 You will have to answer their questions. But decide not to think now about what you will say. Wait until that time comes. 
Luke21:15 I will give you the right words to speak at that time. I will help you to be wise. Your enemies will not be able to argue against you. They will be quiet. 
Luke21:16 Even your parents and other people in your family will turn against you. They will give you to your enemies. They will even kill some of you. 
Luke21:17 Everybody will hate you because you are my disciples. 
Luke21:18 But your life will be safe with me. You will not lose even one hair from your head. 
Luke21:19 Yes, you will have true life, if you remain strong." 
Luke21:20 One day you will see Jerusalem with armies all around it. Then you will know that enemies will soon destroy that city. 
Luke21:21 People in Judea must then run away to the hills to hide. People that are inside the city must leave it. People that are outside in the fields must not go back into the city. 
Luke21:21 People in Judea must then run away to the hills to hide. People that are inside the city must leave it. People that are outside in the fields must not go back into the city. 
Luke21:22 This is when God will punish the people in the city. Then all the things will happen that are written in the Bible. 
Luke21:23 That will be a bad time for women who are soon to have a baby! It will also be a bad time for those women who have little babies! Yes, very bad things will happen to all the people of this country. God will be very angry with the people who live here." 
Luke21:24 At that time, enemies will fight God's people and kill many of them in war. They will take some of them away as prisoners to live in all the other countries. Foreign nations will destroy Jerusalem. They will rule here until their time comes to an end.’" 
Luke21:25 ‘You will see strange things happen to the sun and to the moon and to the stars. Down on earth, people in many countries will become very afraid. The sea will make a lot of noise with great waves." 
Luke21:26 These things will frighten people so that they become very weak. The powerful things in the sky will shake. People will be very afraid about what will soon happen in the world. 
Luke21:27 Then they will see the Son of Man as he comes in a cloud. He will have great power and bright glory. 
Luke21:28 When these things begin to happen, stand up! Be brave and look up, because God will save you very soon.’" 
Luke21:29 Then Jesus told them a story to explain this future time. He said, ‘Think about fig trees and other trees as well." 
Luke21:30 When you see new leaves on a tree, you know that summer will come soon. Nobody needs to tell you that." 
Luke21:31 In the same way, you will see these strange things happening. Then you will know that the kingdom of God will soon be here." 
Luke21:32 I tell you this. The people who are alive now will not all die until all these things happen. 
Luke21:33 One day, the earth and the sky will have an end. But my words will be there for ever." 
Luke21:34 But be careful how you live! Do not eat or drink too much. Do not fill your minds with thoughts about what you need to live. If you do, that day will come as a surprise. It will catch you suddenly like a trap!" 
Luke21:35 It will happen to everyone who lives anywhere on the earth. 
Luke21:36 So be ready all the time! Continue to pray that you will be strong. Then you will remain safe through all these things that must happen! You will stand in front of the Son of Man and you will not be afraid.’ 
Luke21:37 Every day Jesus was teaching people in the yard of the temple. Each night he went out of the city and he stayed on the Mount of Olives. 
Luke21:38 Each morning he returned to the temple. All the people were going there early in the morning to listen to him. 
Luke22:1 The Passover festival when the Jews eat flat bread was coming soon. 
Luke22:2 The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law wanted to kill Jesus. They were talking together about how they could do this. It was difficult because they were afraid of the people. 
Luke22:3 Then Satan took control of Judas Iscariot. Judas was one of Jesus' 12 apostles. 
Luke22:4 He went to the leaders of the priests and he talked with them. The police that worked at the temple were also there. Judas told them how he could give Jesus to them secretly. 
Luke22:5 They were very happy and they promised to give him some money to do this. 
Luke22:6 So Judas said that he would help them. Then he waited for the right moment to take hold of Jesus. He wanted to do it when the crowd was not there with Jesus. 
Luke22:7 The day came for Jewish people to eat the meal of flat bread which has no yeast in it. They had to kill a lamb for the Passover meal on that day. 
Luke22:8 So Jesus said to Peter and John, ‘Go and prepare the Passover meal for us to eat. Then we can all come and eat it.’" 
Luke22:8 So Jesus said to Peter and John, ‘Go and prepare the Passover meal for us to eat. Then we can all come and eat it.’" 
Luke22:9 They asked him, ‘Where do you want us to prepare the meal?’" 
Luke22:10 Jesus replied, ‘Listen. When you go into the city, a man will meet you. He will be carrying a jar of water. Follow him until he goes into a house." 
Luke22:11 You must then say to the master of that house, “Our Teacher sends this message to you: ‘Where is the room for visitors? I will eat the Passover meal there with my disciples.’ ”" 
Luke22:12 The man will then show you a large room upstairs. It will have all that you need in it. Prepare the Passover meal there for us all.’ 
Luke22:13 So Peter and John went into the city. They found everything that Jesus had told them about. So they prepared the Passover meal. 
Luke22:13 So Peter and John went into the city. They found everything that Jesus had told them about. So they prepared the Passover meal. 
Luke22:14 When it was time to eat the meal, Jesus arrived. He sat down with his apostles to eat it." 
Luke22:15 He said to them, ‘I have wanted very much to eat this Passover meal with you. It has to happen before I die." 
Luke22:16 I tell you this. I will not eat another Passover meal in this world. I will only eat it again when the kingdom of God finally becomes complete.’ 
Luke22:17 Then Jesus took a cup and he thanked God for the wine. He said to his apostles, ‘Take this cup. Each of you drink some wine from it." 
Luke22:18 I tell you this. I will not drink wine again until God's kingdom comes.’ 
Luke22:19 Then he took a loaf of bread and he thanked God for it. He broke the bread into pieces and he gave some of it to each of them. He said, ‘This is my body. I am giving it to save you. When you eat this meal from now on, remember me.’" 
Luke22:20 After supper, Jesus took a cup of wine and he did the same thing. He said, ‘This cup shows the new agreement that God makes because of my death. When I die, my blood will pour out of my body. I will do that for you." 
Luke22:21 But look! The person who will give me to my enemies is sitting at the table with me. We are eating together. 
Luke22:22 The Son of Man must die in the way that God says. But it will be very bad for the man who gives me to my enemies.’ 
Luke22:23 The 12 apostles asked each other, ‘Who is the man that would do this thing?’" 
Luke22:24 Then the apostles began to argue among themselves. They were arguing about which of them seemed to be the most important. 
Luke22:25 Jesus said to them, ‘Kings of other countries use great authority over their people. Leaders of those countries want people to say good things about them." 
Luke22:26 You must not be like that. The most important person among you must become like the least important person. The person who is your leader must become like your servant. 
Luke22:27 Tell me, which person is more important? Is it the person who sits at the table to eat? Or is it the servant that puts out the meal for him? Yes, it is the person who sits at the table. But I am here to be your servant." 
Luke22:28 You have never left me. You have been by my side when trouble came to me. 
Luke22:29 So now I tell you that you will rule with me. My Father has said that I will rule with him in his kingdom. I also say to you that you will rule with me. 
Luke22:30 In my kingdom you will sit at my table. You will eat and drink with me. You will sit like kings on thrones. You will judge the people of the 12 tribes of Israel.’ 
Luke22:31 Jesus then said, ‘Simon, Simon, listen to me! Satan has asked to have authority over you all. He will shake you as a farmer shakes seeds." 
Luke22:32 But I have prayed for you, Simon, that you will continue to believe in me. And this is what you must do. When you have turned back to me, you must help your brothers to be strong again.’" 
Luke22:33 But Simon Peter replied, ‘ Lord, I am ready to go to prison with you. I am even ready to die with you!’" 
Luke22:34 Jesus said to him, ‘I tell you this, Peter. Very soon, you will say that you do not know me. You will say that three times before the cockerel sings early tomorrow morning.’" 
Luke22:35 Jesus then asked the disciples, ‘When I sent you out without a purse, a bag or shoes, did you need anything?’ They replied, ‘No, we had everything that we needed.’" 
Luke22:36 Jesus said to them, ‘Now it is different. If you have a purse or a bag, you should take it with you. If you do not have a sword, sell your coat. Use the money to buy one." 
Luke22:37 I tell you this. What is written in the Bible must happen to me. It says, “People will think that he is a wicked person.” And this must happen to me soon, so that it becomes true.’" 
Luke22:38 The disciples said, ‘Look, Lord, we have two swords here.’ Jesus replied, ‘You have said enough.’" 
Luke22:39 Jesus left the city. He went to the Mount of Olives. This is what he usually did. His disciples went with him. 
Luke22:40 When they arrived there he said to them, ‘Ask God to help you, so that you do not want to do wrong things.’" 
Luke22:41 Then he went away from them about as far as you can throw a stone. He went down on his knees and he prayed," 
Luke22:42 ‘Father, if you want, you can save me from this time of great pain. But I do not ask you to do what I want. Do what you want to do.’" 
Luke22:43 [Then an angel came to him from heaven. The angel made him stronger. 
Luke22:44 Jesus began to have troubles in his mind. He prayed again even more strongly. His sweat became like blood and it fell to the ground.] 
Luke22:45 Then Jesus finished praying and he stood up again. He returned to the disciples. He saw that they were sleeping. They were very weak and tired because they were so sad. 
Luke22:46 He said, ‘You should not be sleeping. Get up and pray! Ask God to help you, so that you do not want to do wrong things.’" 
Luke22:47 While Jesus was still speaking, a crowd of people came towards him. Judas, one of the 12 apostles, led the crowd to that place. He came near to Jesus to kiss him." 
Luke22:48 Jesus said to him, ‘Judas, why do you want to kiss me, the Son of Man? You are helping my enemies to take hold of me!’" 
Luke22:49 The people near to Jesus saw what was happening. They asked him, ‘ Lord, should we use our swords to fight?’" 
Luke22:50 One of them hit the servant of the leader of the priests. He cut off the servant's right ear. 
Luke22:51 Jesus said, ‘That is enough!’ He then touched the man's ear and made him well again." 
Luke22:52 Then Jesus spoke to the people that had come to take hold of him. They were the leaders of the priests, and the leaders of the police in the temple. Other important Jews were also there. He said to them, ‘You have come here with swords and heavy sticks. Do you really think that I am a dangerous robber?" 
Luke22:53 Every day I was with you in the yard of the temple. You did not try to take hold of me then. But now is the time for you to work. It is a dark time, when the devil has authority.’" 
Luke22:54 Then they took hold of Jesus. They took him away and they brought him to the house of the leader of the priests. Peter was following them, but he did not go near Jesus." 
Luke22:55 People lit a fire in the yard of the house and they sat around it. Peter went and he sat with them. 
Luke22:56 A girl who worked there then saw Peter in the light from the fire. She looked carefully at him and she said, ‘This man too was a friend of Jesus.’" 
Luke22:57 Peter replied, ‘Woman, that is not true! I do not even know him.’" 
Luke22:58 After a short time, someone else looked at him. He said, ‘You also are one of their group.’ Peter replied, ‘Man, I am not one of them.’" 
Luke22:59 After about an hour, another man said, ‘I am sure that this man was a friend of Jesus. He is from Galilee too.’" 
Luke22:60 Peter replied, ‘Man, I do not know what you are talking about.’ While Peter was still speaking, a cockerel sang loudly." 
Luke22:61 Then the Lord Jesus turned round and he looked at Peter. Peter remembered what Jesus had said to him: ‘You will say tonight that you do not know me. You will say it three times before the cockerel sings in the morning.’ 
Luke22:62 Peter went out of the yard and he wept a lot. 
Luke22:63 The guards who were holding Jesus were laughing at him. They hit him many times. 
Luke22:64 They covered his eyes with a cloth and they said to him, ‘Show us that you are a prophet. Tell us who hit you!’" 
Luke22:65 And they said many other bad things against him. 
Luke22:66 At dawn, the Jewish leaders met together. The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law were at the meeting. Then other men brought Jesus to stand in front of them." 
Luke22:67 They asked him, ‘Are you the Messiah? If you are, tell us.’ Jesus replied, ‘If I do tell you, you will not believe me." 
Luke22:68 I could also ask you a question. But if I do that, you will not answer me." 
Luke22:69 But from now on, the Son of Man will be sitting in the most important place. He will be sitting at the right side of the Most Powerful God.’" 
Luke22:70 They all said, ‘So, are you the Son of God?’ Jesus replied, ‘You say that I am.’" 
Luke22:71 Then they said, ‘We do not need anyone else to speak against this man. We ourselves have heard what he has said about himself.’" 
Luke23:1 All the people at the meeting stood up to leave. They took Jesus to stand in front of Pilate. 
Luke23:2 Then they all started to tell Pilate that Jesus had done bad things. They said, ‘We found this man when he was telling our people wrong things. He said that we must not pay taxes to the Roman government. He also said that he himself is the Messiah, that is, a king.’" 
Luke23:3 Pilate asked Jesus, ‘Are you the king of the Jews?’ Jesus replied, ‘You have said it.’" 
Luke23:4 Pilate then said to the leaders of the priests and to all the crowd of people, ‘I cannot find any reason to say that this man is guilty.’" 
Luke23:5 But they continued to speak strongly to him. They said, ‘He makes the people angry and ready to fight against the government. He has taught these bad things everywhere in Judea. He started in Galilee and now he has come to Jerusalem.’" 
Luke23:5 But they continued to speak strongly to him. They said, ‘He makes the people angry and ready to fight against the government. He has taught these bad things everywhere in Judea. He started in Galilee and now he has come to Jerusalem.’" 
Luke23:6 When Pilate heard this, he asked if Jesus came from Galilee." 
Luke23:7 He discovered that he was from the region where Herod ruled. So Pilate sent Jesus to stand in front of Herod. Herod was also in Jerusalem at that time. 
Luke23:8 Herod was very happy to see Jesus. He had heard about him and he had wanted to meet him for a long time. He wanted to see Jesus do a miracle to show God's power. 
Luke23:9 He asked Jesus many questions, but Jesus did not answer any of them." 
Luke23:10 The leaders of the priests and the teachers of God's Law were standing there. They were shouting out that Jesus had done many bad things. 
Luke23:11 Herod and his soldiers started to laugh at Jesus. They were saying things to make him feel bad. They put a beautiful coat on him. Then they sent him back to Pilate. 
Luke23:12 That same day, Herod and Pilate became friends. Until then, they had not liked each other." 
Luke23:13 Pilate then told the leaders of the priests, the leaders of the Jews and the people to come back to him." 
Luke23:14 He said to them, ‘You brought this man to me. You said that he was teaching the people to do bad things. Listen! I have asked him some questions in front of you. But I have not found that he has done anything wrong." 
Luke23:15 Herod also did not find that he had done anything wrong. That is why he has sent him back to me. You can see this. He has not done anything bad that means he deserves to die. 
Luke23:16 So I will punish him. I will command a soldier to hit him with whips. Then I will let him go.’ 
Luke23:17 [Pilate usually let one person go free out of the prison at Passover time.] 
Luke23:18 But the crowd all shouted together, ‘Take this man away and kill him! We want Barabbas to go free.’" 
Luke23:19 Barabbas had fought against the Roman rulers in Jerusalem. He had also killed somebody. That is why the rulers had put him in prison. 
Luke23:20 But Pilate still wanted to let Jesus go. So he spoke to the crowd again. 
Luke23:21 But they continued to shout, ‘Kill him on a cross, kill him on a cross.’" 
Luke23:22 Pilate asked them the same question for the third time. ‘Why should I kill him? What wrong things has he done? You want me to say that he should die. But I have not found anything wrong that would cause me to say that. So I will punish him. I will command my soldiers to hit him with a whip. Then I will let him go.’ 
Luke23:23 But they continued to shout at Pilate, ‘Kill him on a cross.’ They would not stop shouting very loudly." 
Luke23:24 So finally Pilate decided to do what they wanted. 
Luke23:25 They had asked Pilate to let Barabbas go free out of the prison. He was the man who had fought against the Roman rulers. He had also killed somebody. He was the man that Pilate let go free. As for Jesus, Pilate commanded the soldiers to take him away. He let the people do to Jesus what they wanted." 
Luke23:26 So the soldiers took Jesus away, to go to the place where they would kill him. On the way, they took hold of a man called Simon. This man was from the town of Cyrene. He was coming in from outside the city. The soldiers took the cross that Jesus was carrying on his shoulders. They made Simon carry it instead as he walked behind Jesus." 
Luke23:27 A very large crowd of people were following Jesus. There were many women among them. They were crying with loud voices. They were weeping and crying because they were very sad. 
Luke23:28 So Jesus turned round and he said to them, ‘You women that live in Jerusalem, do not weep for me. Instead, cry for yourselves and for your children." 
Luke23:29 Listen! Days will come when people will say, “It is better for those women that could not have babies. Those women that never had babies to feed are the happy ones!”" 
Luke23:30 People will begin to say, “It would be better if we were dead.” They will ask the mountains to fall on top of them. They will ask the hills to cover them up." 
Luke23:31 Terrible things are happening now. But much worse things will happen! Now the fire burns slowly. But soon it will be like a fire that quickly burns dry wood!’ 
Luke23:32 The soldiers also took two other men out of the prison. These men had done bad things. The soldiers would kill them and Jesus together. 
Luke23:33 They took them to the place that is called ‘The Skull ’. There they fixed Jesus to a cross to die. They also fixed the two bad men to crosses. One of these men was on the right side of Jesus. The other was on his left side. 
Luke23:34 Jesus said, ‘Father, these soldiers do not know what they are doing. So please forgive them.’ The soldiers then picked up Jesus' clothes for themselves. They played a game with dice to decide who would receive each piece of his clothes." 
Luke23:35 The people stood there and they were watching. The Jewish leaders were laughing at Jesus. They said, ‘He saved other people, did he? Then he should save his own life! Then we will know that he is really the Messiah, the man that God has chosen.’" 
Luke23:36 The soldiers also laughed at him. They came up to him and they offered him bitter wine to drink. 
Luke23:37 They said, ‘If you are really the king of the Jews, save your own life.’" 
Luke23:38 There was also a notice fixed at the top of the cross. It said, ‘This is the King of the Jews.’" 
Luke23:39 One of the bad men on a cross at the side of Jesus started to insult him. He shouted, ‘You say that you are the Messiah, do you? Then save your own life and save our lives too!’" 
Luke23:40 But the bad man on the other cross told him that he should be quiet. He said, ‘You should be afraid of God! You are receiving the same punishment as this man." 
Luke23:41 We two men have done very bad things. So it is right that we should die. But this man has not done anything wrong.’ 
Luke23:42 Then the man said to Jesus, ‘Remember me, Jesus, when you start to rule in your kingdom.’" 
Luke23:43 Jesus replied, ‘I promise you, today you will be with me in paradise.’" 
Luke23:44 It was now about midday. The whole country became dark for three hours. 
Luke23:45 The sun did not give any light. The curtain inside the temple tore into two parts. 
Luke23:46 Then Jesus shouted loudly, ‘Father, I give my spirit to you.’ After he shouted this, he died." 
Luke23:47 There was a captain of the soldiers there. When he saw what had happened, he praised God. He said. ‘I am sure that this man did not do anything wrong.’" 
Luke23:48 A very big crowd had come together to watch the men die. When they saw what had happened, they began to go home. They were very sad, and they were hitting their own bodies with their hands." 
Luke23:49 The friends of Jesus were there. The women that had come with him from Galilee were also there. They were all standing a long way away. They also saw what happened to Jesus. 
Luke23:50 A man called Joseph was also there. He belonged to the group of important Jewish leaders. He was a good man that wanted to do right things. 
Luke23:51 He was from the town of Arimathea in Judea. He had not agreed with the other leaders that Jesus should die. He was waiting for the kingdom of God to come. 
Luke23:51 He was from the town of Arimathea in Judea. He had not agreed with the other leaders that Jesus should die. He was waiting for the kingdom of God to come. 
Luke23:52 So Joseph went to see Pilate. He asked Pilate for the dead body of Jesus. Pilate agreed to this. 
Luke23:53 Joseph then went to the place where Jesus had died. He took the dead body down from the cross. He put a piece of linen cloth around the body. Then he put the body into a grave hole in the rock. It was a place where nobody had ever put a dead body before. 
Luke23:54 This all happened on the day before the Jewish day of rest. It was nearly time for the Jewish day of rest to begin. 
Luke23:55 The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph. They saw the hole in the rock where Joseph put Jesus' body. 
Luke23:56 Then they returned to the house where they were staying in Jerusalem. They prepared spices and oil that had a beautiful smell. On the Jewish day of rest they obeyed God's Law and they did not work. 
Luke24:1 Very early on the first day of the week, the women went to the grave hole where Joseph had put Jesus' dead body. They took with them the spices that they had prepared." 
Luke24:2 They found that someone had rolled the big stone away from the hole. 
Luke24:3 They went into the hole in the rock, but they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus there." 
Luke24:4 They did not understand this at all. But while they were thinking about it, two men appeared. Their clothes shone brightly like lightning. These men came and stood beside the women." 
Luke24:5 So the women became very afraid and they bent down low with their faces on the ground. The men said to the women, ‘This is a place to bury dead people. You should not be looking here for someone who is alive." 
Luke24:6 Jesus is not here. He has become alive again! Remember what he said to you, while he was still with you in Galilee." 
Luke24:7 He said, “It is necessary that someone should give the Son of Man into the power of bad men. They will kill him on a cross. But three days later he will become alive again.” ’" 
Luke24:8 Then the women remembered the words that Jesus had said in Galilee. 
Luke24:9 They left the grave hole where Jesus' body had been. They went to the 11 apostles. They told them what had happened. They also told all the other people who were with them. 
Luke24:10 It was Mary from Magdala, Joanna, James' mother Mary, and other women who were with them that told the news about Jesus to the apostles." 
Luke24:10 It was Mary from Magdala, Joanna, James' mother Mary, and other women who were with them that told the news about Jesus to the apostles." 
Luke24:11 But the apostles did not believe what the women said. They thought that it was just a silly story. 
Luke24:12 But Peter got up and ran to the grave hole. He bent down and he looked inside. He saw only the pieces of linen cloth that Joseph had put around Jesus' body. There was nothing else. So he went home again. He could not understand what had happened. 
Luke24:13 Later on that same day, two of Jesus' disciples were going to a village. The village was called Emmaus. It was about 11 kilometres from Jerusalem." 
Luke24:14 They were talking to each other about all the things that had happened. 
Luke24:15 While they were talking like this, Jesus himself came near to them. He started to walk along with them." 
Luke24:16 They saw him, but they were not able to recognize him." 
Luke24:17 Jesus asked them, ‘What are you talking about while you walk along the road?’ They stood still and they seemed to be sad." 
Luke24:18 One of them, called Cleopas, answered him, ‘Many things have happened in Jerusalem in the last few days. Are you the only visitor here that does not know about it?’" 
Luke24:19 Jesus asked them, ‘What things have happened?’ They replied, ‘The things that happened to Jesus who was from Nazareth. He was a prophet from God. He did many great things and he spoke powerful messages. God showed that his message was true. All the people believed him." 
Luke24:20 Then the leaders of the priests and our rulers took hold of him. They gave him to the Roman ruler. They said that he had done bad things and that he ought to die. So they fixed him to a cross to kill him. 
Luke24:21 But before that happened, we had hoped that he would save the people of Israel. We hoped that he would make us free again. There are other things too. Today is the third day since Jesus died." 
Luke24:22 After all this happened, some women in our group surprised us. Early this morning, they went to the grave where Joseph had put his body." 
Luke24:23 But they did not find his body there. So they returned to us and they said, “Some angels appeared to us. They have told us that Jesus is alive.”" 
Luke24:24 So some people from our group went to the grave where his body had been. They found everything the same as the women had said. But they did not see Jesus.’ 
Luke24:25 Jesus then said to them, ‘How silly you are! You are very slow to believe everything that God's prophets said long ago." 
Luke24:26 You should have known that the Messiah had to die. Only then would he return to heaven, his place of glory.’" 
Luke24:27 Jesus then began to explain to them what Moses and all God's prophets had taught. He showed them what was written in the Bible about himself. 
Luke24:28 Then they came near to the village that the disciples were going to. It seemed that Jesus would continue his journey. 
Luke24:29 But they wanted him to stop there. They said to him, ‘Please stay in our home with us. It is getting late, and it will soon be night.’ So Jesus went into their house to stay with them." 
Luke24:30 He sat down to eat with them. He took the bread and he thanked God for it. He broke it into pieces and he gave some to them. 
Luke24:31 Then their eyes became clear and they recognized him. But then he disappeared and they could no longer see him. 
Luke24:32 They said to each other, ‘When he talked to us, it was like a fire that was burning inside us. We felt it while we were walking along the road. We also felt it when he was explaining God's message in the Bible.’" 
Luke24:33 Immediately they got up and they returned to Jerusalem. There they found the 11 apostles and other people who were with them. 
Luke24:34 The people there told the two disciples, ‘It is true! The Lord Jesus is alive again. He has appeared to Simon!’" 
Luke24:35 Then the two disciples spoke to the whole group. They told everyone what had happened to them on the road to their village. They said how they had recognized Jesus when he broke the bread into pieces in their home. 
Luke24:36 While they were still speaking like that, Jesus himself stood among them. He said to them, ‘May peace be with you.’" 
Luke24:37 But the whole group was very surprised and afraid. They thought that they were seeing a spirit. 
Luke24:38 Jesus said to them, ‘You should not be so afraid. You seem to have trouble in your minds about what you are seeing." 
Luke24:39 Now look at my hands and my feet. It is really me! Touch me. Then you will know that I am not a spirit. A spirit does not have a body with skin and bones. You can see that I have a real body.’ 
Luke24:40 When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet." 
Luke24:41 This was very good news and they were very happy. But they could still not really believe it. So he asked them, ‘Do you have anything that I could eat?’" 
Luke24:42 They gave him a piece of fish that they had cooked. 
Luke24:43 While they were watching, he took it and he ate it." 
Luke24:44 Then he said to them, ‘I told you about these things while I was still with you. Everything that God's servants wrote about me in the Bible had to happen. Moses wrote about me in his book of God's Law. The prophets also wrote about me. The book of Psalms also speaks about me. And now it has become true.’" 
Luke24:45 Then he helped them to understand God's message in the Bible. 
Luke24:46 He told them, ‘This is what it says there. The Messiah had to die. Then, after three days, he had to rise up and become alive again." 
Luke24:47 People in every country of the world must hear God's message. They must stop doing wrong things and change how they live. When they do this, God will forgive them for all the bad things that they have done. People need to tell this message about the Messiah in Jerusalem first, then tell people in other countries." 
Luke24:48 You are the people who have seen what has happened here. You must tell other people about it. 
Luke24:49 Now listen! I will send you the gift that God my Father has promised to give you. You must stay here in the city until this happens. Then the power of God will come from heaven and it will cover you.’ 
Luke24:50 Then Jesus led the group of his disciples out of the city. They all went to a place near the village called Bethany. He held up his hands towards them all. He asked God to bless them. 
Luke24:51 While he was praying for them like that, he went up away from them. God lifted him up to heaven." 
Luke24:52 The disciples bent down low to worship Jesus. Then they returned to Jerusalem and they were all very happy. 
Luke24:53 All the time they were in the temple and they were praising God. 
John1:1 In the beginning, the Word was already there. The Word was with God. The Word was God." 
John1:2 He was with God from the beginning. 
John1:3 God made all things through the Word. God did not make anything without him. 
John1:4 It is the Word who caused everything to live. Because of this, he has brought light to all people." 
John1:5 The light shines in the dark, and the dark cannot put out the light." 
John1:6 God sent a man to bring his message. His name was John. 
John1:7 He came to tell people about the light. God wanted everyone to believe in the one who is the light. 
John1:8 John himself was not that light. God sent him to tell people about the light. 
John1:9 The true light gives light to every person. That light was now coming into the world. 
John1:10 The Word was now in the world. God had made the world through him. But the people in the world did not know who he was. 
John1:11 He came to his own place, but his own people did not accept him." 
John1:12 But some people did accept him and they believed in him. He gave authority to those people to become God's children. 
John1:13 They did not become God's children in the usual human way. They were not born because some people wanted to have children. They were not born because of what any man decided. No! They were born from God. 
John1:14 The Word became human. He lived among us. We saw his great glory. He has the glory of the Father's one true Son. He is full of God's grace and his truth. 
John1:15 John told people about the Word. He shouted, ‘This is the man that I told you about. He comes after me. But he is greater than I am. He was already there before I was born.’" 
John1:16 The Word is full of everything that we need. We have all received one good thing after another good thing. 
John1:17 God gave his Law to us through Moses. But Jesus Christ brought God's grace and his truth to us. 
John1:18 Nobody has ever seen God. But God's only Son has shown God to us. He is very near to the Father, and he himself is God." 
John1:19 The Jewish leaders sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask John, ‘Who are you?’" 
John1:20 John did not refuse to answer. He said, ‘I am not the Messiah.’" 
John1:21 So they asked him, ‘So who are you? Are you Elijah?’ John said, ‘No, I am not.’ They asked, ‘Are you the Prophet?’ John answered, ‘No.’" 
John1:22 Then they said, ‘Tell us who you are. We must say something to the people who sent us. What do you say about yourself?’" 
John1:23 He said, ‘I am the voice of somebody shouting in the wilderness: “The Lord will come soon. Make a straight path for him.” That is what the prophet Isaiah said a long time ago.’" 
John1:24 The men who came to ask these questions were Pharisees. 
John1:25 They said to John, ‘You say that you are not the Messiah, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet. So why do you baptize people?’" 
John1:26 John replied, ‘I baptize people with water. But there is someone here among you that you do not know." 
John1:27 He is the one who comes after me. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him.’ 
John1:28 All these things happened at a place on the east side of the Jordan River. It was a village called Bethany. John was baptizing people there. 
John1:29 The next day, John saw Jesus, who was coming towards him. John said, ‘Look! Here is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of people in the world." 
John1:30 This is the man that I told you about. I told you, “He comes after me, but he is greater than I am. He was already there before I was born.”" 
John1:31 I did not know him. But I had to show Israel's people who he was. That is why I am baptizing people with water.’ 
John1:32 Then John told them, ‘I saw God's Spirit come down from heaven. He came down like a dove and he stayed on Jesus." 
John1:33 I would not have known who Jesus was. But God had sent me to baptize people with water. And God told me, “You will see the Spirit come down. He will stay on someone. That is the person who will baptize people with my Holy Spirit.”" 
John1:34 Now I have seen this. So I can tell you that this is God's Son.’ 
John1:35 John was standing there again the next day, with two of his disciples." 
John1:36 He saw Jesus, who was walking past them. John said, ‘Look! Here is the Lamb of God.’" 
John1:37 When the two disciples heard this, they followed Jesus." 
John1:38 Then Jesus turned round. He saw that they were following him. He asked them, ‘What do you want?’ They said, ‘Rabbi, where are you staying?’ (Rabbi means ‘Teacher’.)" 
John1:39 Jesus replied, ‘Come with me and you will see.’ So they went with him. They saw where he was staying. It was about four o'clock in the afternoon. And they stayed with him that day." 
John1:40 Andrew was one of the two disciples who had followed Jesus. They had heard what John had said about Jesus. Andrew was Simon Peter's brother. 
John1:41 The first thing that Andrew did was to find his brother, Simon. Andrew said to Simon, ‘We have found the Messiah.’ (‘Messiah’ and ‘Christ’ mean the same.)" 
John1:42 Then Andrew brought Simon to Jesus. Jesus looked at Simon and he said, ‘You are Simon, John's son. Your name will be Cephas.’ This name is the same as Peter, which means ‘rock’." 
John1:43 The next day, Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He met Philip, and Jesus said to Philip, ‘Follow me.’" 
John1:44 Philip, like Andrew and Peter, came from the town of Bethsaida." 
John1:45 Philip went to find Nathanael. He told Nathanael, ‘We have found the man that Moses wrote about in the book of God's Law. The prophets also wrote about him. He is Jesus, who is Joseph's son, from Nazareth.’" 
John1:46 Nathanael said, ‘I did not think that anything good could come from Nazareth!’ Philip replied, ‘Come and see.’" 
John1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael, who was coming towards him. Jesus said, ‘Here is a completely honest man. That is what a person from Israel should really be like.’" 
John1:48 Nathanael asked, ‘How do you know me?’ Jesus answered, ‘I saw you before Philip asked you to come. I saw you when you were under the fig tree.’" 
John1:49 Nathanael said, ‘Teacher, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel.’" 
John1:50 Jesus said to him, ‘I told you that I saw you under the fig tree. Now you believe me because I told you that. But you will see much greater things than that.’" 
John1:51 Then Jesus said to him, ‘I tell you this. You will see heaven open. You will see God's angels. They will be going up and they will be coming down on the Son of Man.’" 
John2:1 Two days after that, there was a marriage party. It was in the town of Cana, in Galilee. Jesus' mother was there." 
John2:2 People had asked Jesus and his disciples to come to the party too. 
John2:3 When people had drunk all the wine, Jesus' mother said to him, ‘They have no more wine.’" 
John2:4 Jesus replied, ‘Woman, why do you tell me this? It is not my time yet.’" 
John2:5 His mother said to the servants, ‘Do whatever he tells you to do.’" 
John2:6 There were six big pots there that were made of stone. Each pot could contain about 100 litres of water. The water was there so that the Jews could wash themselves in the way that their special rules taught. 
John2:7 Jesus said to the servants, ‘Fill the pots with water.’ So they filled the pots to the top." 
John2:8 Then he said, ‘Now take some of the water from the pots and give it to the master of the party.’ So they did that." 
John2:9 The master of the party tasted the water. The water had now become wine! The master did not know where the wine had come from. But the servants who had given it to him knew about it. Then the master asked the new husband to come to him. 
John2:10 The master said to him, ‘Everyone else brings out the best wine first. When people have had plenty to drink, then they give people cheaper wine. But you are different. You have kept the best wine until now.’" 
John2:11 Jesus did this first miracle at Cana, in Galilee. In this way, Jesus showed how great and powerful he was. And his disciples believed in him." 
John2:12 After this, Jesus went to a town called Capernaum. His mother, his brothers and his disciples went with him. They stayed there for a few days." 
John2:13 It was almost time for the Jewish Passover festival. So Jesus went to Jerusalem. 
John2:14 He went into the yard of the temple. There he found people who were selling cows, sheep and doves. Other people were sitting at tables to change coins for people." 
John2:15 So Jesus made a whip from some pieces of rope. Then he made all the people leave the temple quickly, with the sheep and the cows. He threw onto the ground all the coins of the men who changed money. He turned their tables over." 
John2:16 He said to the people who sold birds, ‘Take them out of here! Do not make my Father's house into a market!’" 
John2:17 Then his disciples remembered what it says in the Bible: ‘My love for your house burns inside me like a fire.’ 
John2:18 The Jewish leaders asked Jesus, ‘What is your authority to do this? Do a miracle to show us that you really do have authority.’" 
John2:19 Jesus answered them, ‘If you destroy this house of God, I will build it up again in three days.’" 
John2:20 The Jews replied, ‘People have worked for 46 years to build this temple. But you say that you will build it again in three days!’" 
John2:21 But the house that Jesus was speaking about was his own body. 
John2:22 The disciples remembered this when Jesus had become alive again after his death. They remembered that he had said this. Then they believed what the Bible taught. They also believed the words that Jesus had spoken. 
John2:23 While Jesus was in Jerusalem for the Passover festival, he did many miracles. Many people saw these miracles that showed he was from God. As a result, they believed in Jesus." 
John2:24 But Jesus himself did not trust the people. He knew what all people are really like. 
John2:25 He did not need anyone to tell him what people are like. He knew already what was really in each person. 
John3:1 There was a Pharisee called Nicodemus. He was one of the Jewish leaders. 
John3:2 He came to speak with Jesus at night. He said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, we know that God has sent you to us. We have seen the miracles that you are doing. Nobody could do these things unless God was with him.’" 
John3:3 Jesus replied, ‘I tell you this. Unless a person is born from above, they cannot understand the kingdom of God.’" 
John3:4 Nicodemus asked, ‘How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot return into his mother's body. He cannot be born a second time.’" 
John3:5 Jesus explained, ‘I tell you this. Unless a person is born by water and by God's Spirit, he cannot come into the kingdom of God." 
John3:6 People give birth to what is human. But God's Spirit gives birth to spirit. 
John3:7 I said to you, “You must be born from above.” What I said should not surprise you." 
John3:8 When someone is born by God's Spirit, it is like the wind that blows. The wind blows wherever it chooses to blow. You can hear it. But you do not know where it came from or where it is going.’" 
John3:9 Nicodemus asked, ‘How can this happen?’" 
John3:10 Jesus replied, ‘You are an important teacher of people in Israel. You ought to understand these things!" 
John3:11 I tell you this. We speak about things that we know. We tell you about what we have seen. But even then, you people do not believe our message." 
John3:12 I have told you about things that happen in this world. And you do not believe me. But now I am telling you about things that happen in heaven. So I do not think that you will ever believe me about those things. 
John3:13 The Son of Man came down from heaven. Nobody else has gone up to heaven except him. 
John3:14 Long ago Moses lifted up the metal snake in the wilderness to save his people. In the same way, people must lift up the Son of Man on a cross." 
John3:15 As a result, everyone who believes him will be able to live for ever with God.’" 
John3:16 God loved the people in the world so much that he gave his one and only Son to save them. As a result, everyone who believes in the Son will not die. Instead, they will live for ever with God." 
John3:17 God did not send his Son into the world because he wanted to punish people. He sent his Son to save the people in the world from punishment. 
John3:18 God will not punish anyone who believes in his Son. But if people refuse to believe in the Son, God has already decided that he must punish them. They have not believed in God's one and only Son." 
John3:19 God's Son has brought light into the world. But some people did not love the light. They loved the dark instead. That was because they were doing evil things. That is why God has decided to punish those people. 
John3:20 Everyone who does evil things hates the light. A person like that will not come to the light because he is afraid. He does not want the bad things that he has done to show clearly. 
John3:21 But anyone who does what is true will come to the light. The light will show clearly that he has been doing what is right. Everyone can see that he has been obeying God. 
John3:22 After this, Jesus and his disciples went to the country places in Judea. Jesus stayed there with his disciples for some time, and they baptized people there." 
John3:22 After this, Jesus and his disciples went to the country places in Judea. Jesus stayed there with his disciples for some time, and they baptized people there." 
John3:23 John was also baptizing people. He was at a place called Aenon, near Salim, because there was a lot of water there. People were coming to him and John was baptizing them." 
John3:24 (This happened before the rulers put John in prison.) 
John3:25 John's disciples began to argue with a certain Jew about some Jewish rules. Those rules told people how they should wash properly. 
John3:26 The disciples then came to John. They said to him, ‘Teacher, remember the man that you spoke to us about. He was with you on the other side of the Jordan River. Now he is baptizing people and everyone is going to him.’" 
John3:27 John replied, ‘A man can receive only what God gives to him, nothing else." 
John3:28 You yourselves will remember that I said, “I am not the Messiah, but God sent me to prepare a way for the Messiah.”" 
John3:29 When a man marries a wife, she belongs to him. The man's special friend listens carefully. He wants to know when the man will arrive. That friend is very happy when he hears the man's voice. I am like that friend, so I am completely happy now." 
John3:30 Jesus must become greater, but I must become less important." 
John3:31 The one who comes from above is greater than all things. A person who comes from the earth belongs to the earth. A person like that speaks only about things that belong to the earth. But the one who comes from heaven is greater than all things. 
John3:32 He tells people about the things that he has seen. He tells about what he has heard. But people do not believe his message. 
John3:33 Anyone who does believe his message agrees that God is true. 
John3:34 The one that God has sent speaks God's words. God has given his Spirit to fill that person completely. 
John3:35 The Father loves the Son. He has given his Son authority over all things. 
John3:36 Anyone who believes in the Son has life with God for ever. But anyone who refuses to obey the Son will never have life with God. God will continue to be angry with people like that.’ 
John4:1 The Pharisees heard the news that many people were joining Jesus' group of disciples. They heard that Jesus was baptizing more disciples than John was baptizing. 
John4:2 But really Jesus himself did not baptize anyone. It was only Jesus' disciples who baptized people. 
John4:3 Jesus discovered what the Pharisees were thinking, so he left Judea. He returned to Galilee." 
John4:3 Jesus discovered what the Pharisees were thinking, so he left Judea. He returned to Galilee." 
John4:4 On his way, he had to go through Samaria." 
John4:5 He came to a town in Samaria called Sychar. It was near to the piece of land that Jacob had given to his son, Joseph, many years earlier." 
John4:6 Jacob's well was there. Jesus was tired after his journey and he sat down beside the well. It was about midday. His disciples had gone to buy food in the town. A woman from Samaria came to the well to get some water. Jesus said to her, ‘Please give a drink to me.’" 
John4:7  
John4:8  
John4:9 The woman from Samaria said to him, ‘You are a Jew and I am a woman from Samaria. Why would you ask me to give you a drink?’ (The Jews usually do not talk to people who come from Samaria.)" 
John4:10 Jesus answered the woman, ‘You do not know what God could give to you. I asked you to give a drink to me. But you do not know who I am. If you did know, you would have asked me to give a drink to you. Then I would have given to you water that gives life.’" 
John4:11 The woman said, ‘Sir, you have no bucket, and the well is deep. Where can you get this water that gives life?" 
John4:12 Jacob, our ancestor, gave this well to us. He, his sons and his sheep, goats and cows all drank its water. Are you saying that you are greater than Jacob?’" 
John4:13 Jesus answered, ‘Everyone who drinks water from this well will get thirsty again." 
John4:14 But I can give people a different kind of water. Everyone who drinks that kind of water will never get thirsty again. The water that I give them will become like a well inside them. That well will continue to provide water that gives them life for ever with God.’ 
John4:15 The woman said to him, ‘Sir, give this water to me. Then I will never get thirsty again. And I will not have to continue to come here so that I can get water.’" 
John4:16 Jesus said to her, ‘Go and bring your husband here.’" 
John4:17 The woman replied, ‘I have no husband.’ Jesus said to her, ‘You are right when you say, “I have no husband.”" 
John4:18 It is true that you have had five husbands. And now you live with a man who is not your husband. What you have said is completely true.’ 
John4:19 The woman said to him, ‘Sir, I can see that you are a prophet." 
John4:20 Our ancestors worshipped God on this mountain. But you Jews say that Jerusalem is the right place to worship.’ 
John4:21 Jesus said to her, ‘Believe me, woman. Soon you will not worship the Father either on this mountain or at Jerusalem." 
John4:22 You people from Samaria do not know the one that you worship. But we Jews do know him, because God's salvation comes from among the Jewish people." 
John4:23 But people will soon have a new way to worship the Father. Yes, that time has already come. Those people who really want to worship the Father will worship him in their spirits, in a true way. The Father looks for people who will worship him like that." 
John4:24 God is spirit. People who worship him must worship from their spirits in a true way.’ 
John4:25 The woman said to Jesus, ‘I know that the Messiah will come. He is called Christ. When he comes, he will explain everything to us.’" 
John4:26 Jesus said to her, ‘I, who am speaking to you, am he.’" 
John4:27 At this moment, Jesus' disciples returned. They were surprised to see that Jesus was talking to a woman. But none of them asked him, ‘What do you want?’ or, ‘Why are you talking to her?’" 
John4:28 Then the woman left her water pot and she returned to the town. She said to the people there," 
John4:29 ‘Come and see a man who has told me everything about myself. He told me all the things that I have ever done! He must be the Messiah!’ 
John4:30 So they left the town and they went to find Jesus. 
John4:31 While that was happening, the disciples said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, eat something.’" 
John4:32 But he said to them, ‘I have food that I can eat. But you do not know about it.’" 
John4:33 So the disciples asked each other, ‘Could someone have brought food to him?’" 
John4:34 Jesus said to them, ‘My Father has sent me. I must do the things he wants me to do. I must finish the work that he has given to me to do. That is like my food." 
John4:35 You often say, “It is still four more months until the crops in the farmers' fields will be ready for the harvest.” But I say that you should open your eyes. Look at the fields. The plants are ready for the harvest now." 
John4:36 The workers are already bringing in the fruit and their master is paying them. As a result, people are receiving life for ever with God. So the person who plants the seeds will be very happy. And the person who brings in the fruit will also be very happy. Both of them will be happy together." 
John4:37 You also say, “One person plants the seeds and another person brings in the fruit.” Now you can see that this is true." 
John4:38 I have sent you to bring people to me like a harvest of fruit. You did not do the work to prepare that fruit. Other people did that hard work. Now you have brought in the fruit that they worked for. That makes you happy.’ 
John4:39 Many of the people who lived in that town in Samaria heard the woman's story. She had said to them, ‘He told me all the things that I have ever done!’ Because of this, they believed in Jesus." 
John4:40 So when these people came to Jesus, they asked him to stay with them. So he stayed there for two days." 
John4:41 Many more people believed in Jesus when they listened to his own words. 
John4:42 The people said to the woman, ‘Now we believe in him because we ourselves have heard him. We do not believe only because of what you told us. He really is the man that God has sent to save the world. We know that now.’" 
John4:43 After those two days in Samaria, Jesus left there and he went to Galilee." 
John4:44 Jesus himself had said earlier, ‘When a prophet of God visits his own town, the people there will not accept him.’" 
John4:45 When he arrived in Galilee, the people there were happy to see him. They had been in Jerusalem at the Passover festival too. They had seen all the things that Jesus had done there." 
John4:46 Jesus visited Cana again. This was the town in Galilee where he had changed the water into wine. A certain man who was one of the king's officers was there. This officer had a son who was at his home in Capernaum. His son was very ill. 
John4:47 The officer had heard the news that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea. So he went to Jesus and asked him to go to Capernaum. His son was dying. So he asked Jesus strongly to make his son well again. 
John4:47 The officer had heard the news that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea. So he went to Jesus and asked him to go to Capernaum. His son was dying. So he asked Jesus strongly to make his son well again. 
John4:48 Jesus said to him, ‘You people want me to do great miracles that will surprise you. Unless you see these great miracles, none of you will ever believe my message.’" 
John4:49 The king's officer said to Jesus, ‘Sir, come with me now before my child dies.’" 
John4:50 Jesus replied, ‘Go home. Your son will live.’ The man believed what Jesus had said. He started to go home." 
John4:51 While the man was on the way, his servants met him. They told him, ‘Your child is now well. He will live.’" 
John4:52 He asked them, ‘At what time did he start to get well?’ They told him, ‘It was yesterday afternoon, at one o'clock. Then his body was no longer hot.’" 
John4:53 Then the father remembered. He knew it was the time when Jesus had said to him, ‘Your son will live.’ So the man and all his family believed in Jesus." 
John4:54 This was the second miracle that Jesus did after he returned from Judea to Galilee. 
John4:54 This was the second miracle that Jesus did after he returned from Judea to Galilee. 
John5:1 Some time after that, Jesus went to Jerusalem, because it was time for one of the Jewish festivals." 
John5:2 There is a pool near the Sheep Gate in Jerusalem. Its name in the Jewish language is Bethesda. Beside the pool, there is a building with five places that have a roof over them." 
John5:3 A large number of sick people were lying in these places. Some of them were blind. Some of them could not walk properly. Some of them could not move their legs or their arms. [They were waiting for when the water started to move. 
John5:4 An angel would go down into the pool at certain times and move the water about. When that happened, all the sick people tried to get into the pool. The first person who got into the water became well, whatever his illness was.]" 
John5:5 One man who was lying there had been ill for 38 years. 
John5:6 Jesus saw this man. He knew that the man had been ill like this for a very long time. So he asked the man, ‘Do you want to get well?’" 
John5:7 The sick man said, ‘Sir, I do not have anyone who will help me. I need somebody who will put me into the pool. When the water starts to move, I try to get in. But someone else always gets in before me.’" 
John5:8 Then Jesus said to him, ‘Stand up! Pick up your mat and walk.’" 
John5:9 The man became well immediately. He picked up his mat and he walked. The day when this happened was a Jewish day of rest. 
John5:10 Because of this, the Jewish leaders spoke to the man that Jesus had made well. They said to him, ‘You must not carry your mat on our day of rest. You are not obeying the rules.’" 
John5:11 The man replied, ‘The man who made me well said to me, “Pick up your mat and walk.” ’" 
John5:12 So they asked him, ‘Who is this man? Who said to you, “Pick up your mat and walk”?’" 
John5:13 The man did not know who had made him well. Jesus had gone away and joined the crowd that was there. 
John5:14 Some time after that, Jesus found the man in the temple. Jesus said to him, ‘See, you have become well. Stop doing wrong things. If you do not stop, something worse may happen to you.’" 
John5:15 Then the man went to the Jewish leaders. He told them that it was Jesus who had made him well. 
John5:16 The Jewish leaders were angry because Jesus had made a man well on their day of rest. As a result, they began to cause a lot of trouble for Jesus." 
John5:17 But Jesus said to them, ‘My Father is still working, and I too must work.’" 
John5:18 Because Jesus said this, the Jewish leaders became really angry. They wanted even more to kill him. Jesus not only worked on the day of rest. He was also calling God his own Father, so he was making himself equal with God." 
John5:19 Jesus answered them, ‘I tell you this. The Son can do nothing by himself. He sees what the Father does, and he can do only those same things. What the Father does, the Son also does." 
John5:20 The Father loves the Son. He shows the Son all the things that he himself does. And the Father will show the Son even greater things to do than these. Those greater things will surprise you even more than what you have already seen. 
John5:21 The Father raises dead people to make them alive again. In the same way, the Son gives life to whoever he chooses." 
John5:22 More than that, the Father does not judge anyone. He has given authority to the Son, so that the Son will judge all people." 
John5:23 Then all people will respect the Son as a great person. They will respect him in the way that they respect the Father. The Father sent the Son. So if people refuse to respect the Son, it shows that they do not respect the Father either." 
John5:24 I tell you this. Everyone who hears my message should believe in the Father who sent me. If they believe in me, they will have life for ever with God. God will not say that they are guilty. They are no longer under the power of death. Instead, they have life with God." 
John5:25 I tell you this. A time will soon come when those who are dead in their spirits will hear the voice of the Son of God. Yes, it is that time already. Those people who hear that message will receive true life." 
John5:26 The Father himself can give people life. In the same way, he has given authority to the Son to give people life." 
John5:27 The Father has also given authority to the Son to judge people. That is because I am the Son of Man. 
John5:28 Do not be surprised by this. There will be a time when all the dead people will hear the Son's voice. 
John5:29 They will come out from under the ground. Those people who have done good things will rise from death and they will live with God. Those people who have done evil things will also rise from death. But they will rise so that God can punish them as guilty people. 
John5:30 I can do nothing by myself. I hear what the Father says to me. Then, because of what he says, I judge people. So I judge in a way that is fair. I am not trying to do what I want for myself. The Father sent me, and I want to do what he wants." 
John5:31 If I say great things about myself, nobody would know that my words are true." 
John5:32 But there is someone else who speaks about me. I know that what he says about me is true. 
John5:33 You have sent your people to ask John about me. What he has told you about me is true. 
John5:34 I do not need any man to speak on my behalf. But I am telling you this to help you. Then God will be able to save you. 
John5:35 John was like a light that shone brightly. For a certain time, you enjoyed the light that he gave." 
John5:36 But it is not only John who shows who I am. There are other things that show it more strongly. My Father has given work to me so that I could finish it. These are the things that I do, and they show who I am. They show clearly that the Father has sent me." 
John5:37 Also, the Father himself has spoken about me. You have never heard his voice. And you have never seen his shape." 
John5:38 I am the one that he has sent. You do not receive his message because you do not believe in me. 
John5:39 You study carefully what the Bible teaches. You think that those books will give you life with God. And it is true, those books do speak about who I am." 
John5:40 But then you refuse to come to me so that you may have life with God! 
John5:41 I do not think that it is important for people to praise me. 
John5:42 But I know what kind of people you are. I know that you do not really love God. 
John5:43 I have come with my Father's authority, but you do not accept me. But if someone else comes with his own authority, then you will accept him." 
John5:44 You like to praise each other. That makes you happy. But what about God himself? You do not try to do good things so that he will praise you. That is why you will never believe in me. 
John5:45 But I will not have to tell the Father that you are guilty. No, it is Moses who will do that. You think that Moses is the one who will show that you are right. But he is the one who will show that you are guilty." 
John5:46 Moses wrote about me. So, if you had really believed Moses, you would believe me." 
John5:47 But you do not believe what Moses wrote. So you will never believe what I say.’ 
John6:1 Some time after that, Jesus went across Lake Galilee, which is also called Lake Tiberias." 
John6:2 A large crowd of people followed him, because of the miracles that he had done. They had seen him make sick people well." 
John6:3 Jesus went up a hill and he sat down there with his disciples. 
John6:4 It was nearly the time for the Jewish Passover Festival. 
John6:5 Jesus looked up. He saw a large crowd of people who were coming towards him. He said to Philip, ‘Where can we buy enough bread to feed all these people?’" 
John6:6 Jesus himself already knew what he would do. But he asked Philip this question because he wanted to know what Philip would say. 
John6:7 Philip answered, ‘A man could work for eight months to get 200 silver coins. But he still would not have enough money to buy bread for all these people. There would not be enough bread for each person here to have even a little piece.’" 
John6:8 Then Andrew, another one of Jesus' disciples, spoke. He was Simon Peter's brother." 
John6:9 He said to Jesus, ‘Here is a boy who has five small loaves and two fish. But that will certainly not be enough food for so many people.’" 
John6:10 Jesus said, ‘Tell the people to sit down.’ There was plenty of grass in that place, so the people sat down. There were about 5,000 men in the crowd." 
John6:11 Jesus took the loaves of bread and he thanked God for them. Then he broke the loaves into pieces. He passed them to all the people who were sitting there. Everyone had as much bread as they wanted to eat. Jesus did the same with the fish. 
John6:12 When everyone had eaten enough food, Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Do not waste anything. Pick up all the little bits of food that people have not eaten.’" 
John6:13 So the disciples picked up all the bits. They filled 12 baskets with the bits of bread that the people had not eaten. 
John6:14 The people saw this miracle that Jesus did. So they began to talk about it. They said, ‘Certainly, this man is the Prophet who must come into the world.’" 
John6:15 The people wanted to take hold of Jesus so that they could make him their king. But Jesus knew that they wanted to do this. So he went away to the hills again by himself. 
John6:16 When it was evening, Jesus' disciples went down to the lake." 
John6:17 They got into a boat and they started to sail towards Capernaum. It had become dark and Jesus still had not come to them. 
John6:18 A very strong wind was blowing and the waves became dangerous. 
John6:19 The disciples were trying to move the boat through the water. When they had gone about six kilometres they saw Jesus. He was walking on the water and coming near to the boat. They were very afraid. 
John6:20 But Jesus said to them, ‘It is I. Do not be afraid.’" 
John6:21 So the disciples were happy to let Jesus get into the boat. Immediately, the boat came to the shore where they wanted to be." 
John6:22 The crowd of people had stayed on the other side of the lake. The next day, they saw that the only boat had gone. They knew that Jesus' disciples had taken it. They also knew that Jesus had not gone with his disciples." 
John6:23 Other boats from Tiberias then arrived near to the place where all the people were. They had eaten the bread there after the Lord Jesus had thanked God for it. 
John6:24 The crowd saw that neither Jesus nor his disciples were still there. So they got into the boats and they went to Capernaum. They went there to look for Jesus. 
John6:25 The people found Jesus on the other side of the lake. They asked him, ‘Teacher, when did you arrive here?’" 
John6:26 Jesus answered, ‘I tell you this. You saw me do miracles that show God's power. But you are not looking for me because of that. No, you are looking for me because you ate the loaves. I gave you all the food that you needed." 
John6:27 Do not work only for that kind of food. It soon becomes spoiled. Instead, work to get the food that continues for ever. That kind of food gives you life with God. The Son of Man will give this food to you. God the Father has given the Son authority to do this.’" 
John6:28 Then the people asked him, ‘How can we do the work that God wants us to do?’" 
John6:29 Jesus answered, ‘You should believe in the one that God has sent to you. That is the work that God wants you to do.’" 
John6:30 So then the people asked him, ‘What miracle will you do? Do one that shows that God has sent you. If we see that, we will believe in you. What will you do?" 
John6:31 Our ancestors ate manna in the wilderness. We know that it says in the Bible, “God gave bread to them from heaven for them to eat.” ’" 
John6:32 Jesus said to them, ‘I tell you this. It was not Moses who gave bread to you from heaven. No. It is my Father who gives to you the true bread from heaven." 
John6:33 God's bread is the one who comes down from heaven. He is the one who gives life to people in the world.’ 
John6:34 So they said to him, ‘Sir, please give this bread to us now and always.’" 
John6:35 Then Jesus said to them, ‘I am the bread that gives life to people. Anyone who comes to me will never be hungry. Anyone who believes in me will never be thirsty." 
John6:36 You have seen me, but still you do not believe in me. I have told you that before." 
John6:37 Everyone that the Father gives to me will come to me. When anyone comes to me, I will never send that person away." 
John6:38 I have not come down from heaven to do what I myself choose to do. No, my Father has sent me. I have come to do what he wants me to do." 
John6:39 He has sent me. He does not want me to lose any of the people that he has given to me. Not even one of them. He wants me to raise all of them up to life on the last day. 
John6:40 These are the people who will have life for ever with God: everyone who sees the Son and believes in him. I will raise them all up on the last day. That is what my Father wants.’ 
John6:41 Jesus had said, ‘I am the bread that came down from heaven.’ When he said this, the Jewish leaders there did not like it. So they started to say bad things about Jesus." 
John6:42 They said, ‘This is Jesus, the son of Joseph. We know his father and his mother. He should not say that he came down from heaven.’" 
John6:43 Jesus answered, ‘Stop saying these bad things about me to each other." 
John6:44 The Father has sent me. Nobody can come to me unless the Father brings them to me. I will raise those people up on the last day, so that they have life for ever." 
John6:45 The prophets wrote in the Bible, “God will teach all the people.” Everyone who hears the Father's message and learns from him will come to me." 
John6:46 I came from God and I am the only one who has seen the Father. Nobody else has seen him. 
John6:47 I tell you this. The person who believes my message has life for ever. 
John6:48 I am the bread that causes you to live. 
John6:49 Your ancestors ate the manna in the wilderness, but they died." 
John6:50 This bread that comes down from heaven is different. Anyone who eats this bread will not die. 
John6:51 I am the bread that gives life to people. This bread came down from heaven. If anyone eats this bread, he will live for ever. The bread that I will give is my own body. I will give it so that all people in the world may have life with God.’" 
John6:52 Then the Jewish leaders became angry and they argued with each other even more. They said, ‘This man cannot give his body to us so that we can eat it!’" 
John6:53 Jesus said to them, ‘I tell you this. You must eat the body of the Son of Man and you must drink his blood. Unless you do those things, you do not have true life." 
John6:54 Every person needs to eat my body and they need to drink my blood. If they do those things, they have life for ever with God. I will raise them up on the last day." 
John6:55 My body is the true food and my blood is the true drink. 
John6:56 Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood lives in me. And I live in them. 
John6:57 The Father, who has life, sent me. I live because of him. In the same way, anyone who takes me as their food will live because of me." 
John6:58 This is the bread that came down from heaven. It is not like the manna that your ancestors ate. They ate it but they died. But the person who eats this bread will live for ever.’ 
John6:59 Jesus said these things while he was teaching in the Jewish meeting place at Capernaum. 
John6:60 Many of Jesus' disciples did not like these words. They said, ‘This thing that he teaches is too difficult. Nobody can agree with it!’" 
John6:61 Jesus himself knew that the disciples did not like his message. He did not need anyone to tell him. He said to them, ‘This seems to make you angry." 
John6:62 Think about this: The Son of Man will go up again to the place where he was before. And you will see him go up. Will you agree to that? 
John6:63 It is the Spirit that gives you life. People cannot do that. The words that I have spoken to you come from the Spirit. They give you life. 
John6:64 But some of you do not believe my message.’ Jesus had known from the beginning which of them would not believe in him. Also, he had always known who would sell him to his enemies." 
John6:65 Then Jesus said to them, ‘That is why I told you that only the Father can bring people to me. Nobody can come to me unless the Father makes them able to come.’" 
John6:66 From that time, many of Jesus' disciples left him. They did not go with him any longer." 
John6:67 Then Jesus asked the 12 apostles, ‘Do you want to go away from me, too?’" 
John6:68 Simon Peter answered him, ‘ Lord, there is nobody else that we could go to. You speak the words that give us life for ever." 
John6:69 We believe that you are the Holy One that God has sent. We are sure about that.’ 
John6:70 Jesus replied, ‘I have chosen the 12 of you. But one of you is a servant of Satan!’" 
John6:71 He was speaking about Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. Judas was one of the 12 apostles, but later he would sell Jesus to Jesus' enemies." 
John7:1 After this, Jesus visited many places in Galilee. He did not want to visit Judea because the Jewish leaders there wanted to kill him." 
John7:1 After this, Jesus visited many places in Galilee. He did not want to visit Judea because the Jewish leaders there wanted to kill him." 
John7:2 It was almost time for the Jewish Festival of Huts. 
John7:3 So Jesus' brothers said to him, ‘You should leave this place and you should go to Judea. Then your disciples will see the great things that you do." 
John7:3 So Jesus' brothers said to him, ‘You should leave this place and you should go to Judea. Then your disciples will see the great things that you do." 
John7:4 Nobody does things secretly if he wants everyone to know him. You are doing these things, so you should show yourself to everybody.’" 
John7:5 Even his own brothers did not believe in him. 
John7:6 So Jesus said to them, ‘It is not the right time for me yet. For you, any time is right." 
John7:7 People who belong to this world cannot hate you. But they hate me. The things that they do are very bad. And I tell them that those things are wrong. That is why they hate me. 
John7:8 You should go to the festival. I will not go to it now, because it is not the right time for me yet.’" 
John7:9 After Jesus said that, he stayed in Galilee." 
John7:10 Some time after his brothers had gone, Jesus also went to the festival. But he did not let other people know that he was going. Instead, he went secretly." 
John7:11 The Jewish leaders were looking for him at the festival. They asked, ‘Where is that man?’" 
John7:12 People in the crowd were talking quietly to each other about Jesus. Some people said, ‘He is a good man.’ But other people said, ‘No, he is telling the people things that are not true.’" 
John7:13 But nobody spoke in public places about him, because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders." 
John7:14 In the middle of the time of the festival, Jesus went to the temple. He started to teach in the yard there." 
John7:15 The Jewish leaders were very surprised. They asked, ‘How does this man know so much? He has not learned in our schools.’" 
John7:16 Jesus answered, ‘What I teach does not come from me. No, it comes from the one who sent me." 
John7:17 Anyone who chooses to do what God wants will know about my teaching. They will know whether it comes from God, or whether it comes from my own thoughts." 
John7:18 A person who teaches his own ideas wants people to think that he himself is great. But I want to show that the one who sent me is great. A person like that is honest and there is nothing false in him. 
John7:19 Moses gave God's Law to you. But not one of you obeys that Law. Why are you trying to kill me?’ 
John7:20 The crowd answered, ‘You have a demon in you! Nobody is trying to kill you!’" 
John7:21 Jesus replied, ‘I did one miracle on the day of rest, and all of you were surprised." 
John7:22 Moses gave you a law that you must circumcise your sons. Your ancestors taught that, even before Moses was born. So you will agree to circumcise a boy, even on the day of rest." 
John7:23 You will do that so that you obey Moses' law. So you should not be angry with me because I made a man completely well on the day of rest. 
John7:24 Do not quickly decide whether something is right or wrong just because of what you see. Instead, think about it carefully. Then you will judge in a right way.’" 
John7:25 Some of the people in Jerusalem began to say, ‘This is the man that our leaders want to kill." 
John7:26 But look! He is speaking to the crowds, and the leaders are not saying anything against him! Perhaps they really think that he is the Messiah!" 
John7:27 But we know where this man came from. When the Messiah comes, nobody will know that. Nobody will know where he has come from.’" 
John7:28 Jesus was still teaching in the yard of the temple. He shouted, ‘Yes, you say that you know me. And you know where I came from. But I have not come because I myself decided to come. He who sent me is true. You do not know him." 
John7:29 But I know him because I have come from him. He is the one who sent me.’ 
John7:30 When they heard this, they tried to take hold of him. But nobody could put their hands on him, because it was not yet the right time." 
John7:31 But many people in the crowd believed in Jesus. They said, ‘This man has done so many miracles. Surely he is the Messiah! Nobody could do more miracles than he has done.’" 
John7:32 The Pharisees heard what these people were saying quietly about Jesus. Then the leaders of the priests and the Pharisees sent some of their officers to take him away. 
John7:33 Jesus said, ‘I will be with you for only a short time. Then I will return to the one who sent me." 
John7:34 You will look for me, but you will not find me. You cannot go to the place where I will be.’" 
John7:35 The Jewish leaders asked each other, ‘What is he trying to tell us? Where can he go so that we cannot find him? Perhaps he will go to our people who have gone away to live among the Greek people. Perhaps he will go to teach the Greek people." 
John7:36 He said, “You will look for me, but you will not find me.” And he also said, “You cannot go to the place where I will be.” What does he mean?’" 
John7:37 The last day of the festival was the most important day. On that day, Jesus stood up and he spoke with a loud voice. He said, ‘If anyone is thirsty, he should come to me so that he may drink." 
John7:38 It says in the Bible, “God will cause streams of water to pour out from anyone who believes in me. Water that gives life will come out from inside that person.” ’" 
John7:39 Jesus was speaking about God's Spirit, who would come to people some time after that. Those people who believed in Jesus would receive God's Spirit at that later time. But God had not yet given his Spirit to people, because he had not yet raised Jesus back up to heaven." 
John7:40 The people in the crowd heard Jesus say these words. Some of them said, ‘Surely this man must be the Prophet from God that we have been waiting for!’" 
John7:41 Other people said, ‘This man is the Messiah.’ But some other people said, ‘The Messiah will not come from Galilee!" 
John7:42 The Bible says that the Messiah will come from King David's family. He will come from Bethlehem, the town where David lived.’" 
John7:43 In this way the people had different thoughts about Jesus. 
John7:44 Some people wanted to take hold of him. But nobody could put their hands on him to take him away. 
John7:45 The officers returned to the leaders of the priests and the Pharisees. The leaders asked their officers, ‘Why did you not bring Jesus here?’" 
John7:46 The officers answered, ‘Nobody has ever spoken great things like this man speaks.’" 
John7:47 The Pharisees replied, ‘He seems to have made you believe his lies!" 
John7:48 None of the Pharisees or our leaders believe in him. 
John7:49 But this crowd does not know what God's Law teaches. God will surely punish them.’ 
John7:50 Nicodemus spoke to them. He himself was one of the Pharisees. He was the man who had gone to speak with Jesus before. He said," 
John7:51 ‘We must find out first what this man has done. Then we can decide if it is right to punish him. Our law says that we must listen to him first.’ 
John7:52 They answered Nicodemus, ‘Perhaps you come from Galilee too! Study what the Bible teaches. You will learn that no prophet of God ever comes from Galilee.’" 
John7:53 [Then everyone went to his own home.] 
John8:1 [Jesus went to the hill which is called the Mount of Olives. 
John8:2 Early the next morning, Jesus returned to the temple in Jerusalem. All the people came to him. He sat down and he began to teach them." 
John8:3 The Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law brought a woman to him. They had found her with another man. She was having sex with a man who was not her husband. They made her stand in front of all the people there. 
John8:4 They said to Jesus, ‘Teacher, we found this woman. She was having sex with a man who was not her husband." 
John8:5 In God's Law Moses says that we should throw stones at this kind of woman, to kill her. What do you say about this?’" 
John8:6 They asked this question for a reason. They wanted Jesus to say something wrong, so that they could punish him. But Jesus bent himself down. He started to write on the ground with his finger." 
John8:7 The Pharisees and the teachers of God's Law continued to ask Jesus questions. So he stood up and he said to them, ‘Any person among you who is not guilty of any sin may throw the first stone to kill her.’" 
John8:8 Then he bent himself down again and he wrote on the ground. 
John8:9 When they heard what Jesus said, the people began to go away. They went one by one. The older people went first. After some time, only Jesus remained with the woman. She was still standing there." 
John8:10 Jesus stood up. He said to her, ‘Woman, where are they? Is there nobody still here who wants to punish you?’" 
John8:11 She said, ‘There is nobody, sir.’ So Jesus said, ‘I also do not want to punish you. Go away now and change the way you live. Do not do wrong things again.’]" 
John8:12 Jesus spoke to the people again. He said, ‘I am the light of the world. Those people who become my disciples will never walk in the dark. No, they will have the light that gives life.’" 
John8:13 The Pharisees began to argue with him. They said, ‘You are saying things about yourself. But there is nobody else to agree that these things are true.’" 
John8:14 Jesus answered, ‘What I say is true. Even if I do speak about myself, my words are true. I know where I have come from. I also know where I will go. As for you, you do not know where I came from. You do not know where I will go." 
John8:15 You judge in the way that people think. I do not judge anyone. 
John8:16 But if I did judge anyone, I would decide correctly what is right. That is because I am not alone. The Father has sent me, and he is with me." 
John8:17 Your own Law says, “There must be two people to agree that something is true.”" 
John8:18 I speak what is true about myself. The Father, who sent me, also speaks what is true about me.’" 
John8:19 Then they asked him, ‘So where is your Father?’ Jesus answered, ‘You do not know either me or my Father. If you really knew me, you would also know my Father.’" 
John8:20 Jesus said all these words while he taught in the yard of the temple. He was near the place where they kept the gifts of money. But nobody took hold of him, because it was not the right time for that yet." 
John8:21 Jesus said to them again, ‘I will go away and you will look for me. But even when you die, God will still not have forgiven your sins. You cannot go where I will go.’" 
John8:22 So the Jewish leaders said to each other, ‘Perhaps he means that he will kill himself. He says, “You cannot go where I will go.” Perhaps that is why he says this.’" 
John8:23 Jesus answered, ‘You belong to the things down here in the world. But I have come from above. You belong to this world, but I do not belong to this world." 
John8:24 I told you that when you die, God will not have forgiven you. You must believe that “I am who I am.” If not, you will die and God will certainly not have forgiven you.’" 
John8:25 Then the Jewish leaders asked Jesus, ‘So, who are you?’ He answered, ‘I have told you who I am from the beginning." 
John8:26 I have many things I could say about you. I could show that you have done many wrong things. But the one who sent me speaks to me. I tell people only what I have heard him say to me. What he says is true.’ 
John8:27 They did not understand that he was speaking to them about his Father. 
John8:28 So Jesus said to them, ‘You will lift up the Son of Man on a cross. Then you will know that “I am who I am”. And you will know that I do nothing by myself. I say only what the Father has taught me to say." 
John8:29 He who sent me is with me. I always do the things that make him happy. So he has never gone away and left me alone.’ 
John8:30 Many people who heard Jesus say these things believed in him. 
John8:31 Then Jesus said to the Jews who now believed him, ‘Continue to obey the words that I have spoken to you. If you do that, you are really my disciples." 
John8:32 Then you will know what is true. And that will make you free.’ 
John8:33 They answered him, ‘We are descendants of Abraham. We have never been anyone's slaves. But you say that we will become free. What do you mean?’" 
John8:34 Jesus answered them, ‘I tell you this. Everyone who does wrong things is a slave to sin." 
John8:35 A slave does not belong to a family for ever. But a son does belong to a family for ever. 
John8:36 So, if the Son makes you free, you will really be free." 
John8:37 I know that you belong to Abraham's family. But you are looking for a way to kill me. That is because you have no place in yourselves for my words. 
John8:38 I speak about the things that my Father has shown me. You do the things that you have heard from your father.’ 
John8:39 They answered, ‘Abraham is our father!’ Jesus replied, ‘If you really belonged to Abraham's family, you would do the same kind of things that Abraham did." 
John8:40 I have told you the true message that I have heard from God. But you want to kill me. Abraham did not do anything like that! 
John8:41 You do the same things that your own father does.’ They said to Jesus, ‘God himself is our only Father, and we are his proper sons!’" 
John8:42 Jesus said to them, ‘If God was your Father, you would love me. I came from God and now I am here with you. I did not come on my own behalf, but God sent me." 
John8:43 Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot really accept my message. 
John8:44 You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to do the things that he wants. From the beginning, he has been someone who murders people. He refuses to accept the truth, because there is nothing true in him. When he tells lies, he is showing what he is really like. He always tells lies. He is the father of all lies." 
John8:45 As for me, I tell you what is true. And that is why you do not believe me." 
John8:46 None of you can show that I have done anything wrong. You should believe me, because I am telling you God's true message." 
John8:47 Someone who belongs to God accepts God's message. But you do not belong to God. That is why you do not accept his message.’ 
John8:48 The Jews answered him, ‘What we say about you is right! You are from Samaria and you have a demon in you!’" 
John8:49 Jesus replied, ‘There is no demon in me. I want people to know how great my Father is. But you want people to think bad things about me." 
John8:50 I myself do not want people to praise me. But there is someone who wants people to praise me. He is the one who decides if I am right. 
John8:51 I tell you this. Anyone who obeys my words will never die.’ 
John8:52 The Jews said, ‘Now we know that a demon lives in you! Abraham and all the prophets died. But you say, “Anyone who obeys my words will never know death!”" 
John8:53 You cannot be greater than our father Abraham, and he died! You cannot be greater than the prophets, and they all died! Who do you think that you are?’" 
John8:54 Jesus replied, ‘If I myself wanted people to praise me, that would be worth nothing. But it is my Father who wants that. And you say that he is your God." 
John8:55 You have never known him, but I know him. I might say, “I do not know him.” But then I would be telling a lie. So I would be like you. But I do know him, and I obey his words." 
John8:56 Your ancestor Abraham knew that I would come at some time. He was happy to know that he would see that time. He did see that time, and he was very happy.’" 
John8:57 The Jews said, ‘You are not 50 years old yet. But you say that you have seen Abraham!’" 
John8:58 Jesus said, ‘I tell you this. Before Abraham was even born, “I am”.’" 
John8:59 Then they picked up stones. They wanted to throw them at him and kill him. But Jesus hid himself from them. He went away from the temple. 
John9:1 While Jesus was walking along, he saw a certain man. This man had been blind since he was born." 
John9:2 Jesus' disciples asked him, ‘Teacher, why was this man blind when he was born? Was it because he himself did something wrong? Or was it because his parents did something wrong?’" 
John9:3 Jesus answered, ‘It was not because either this man or his parents did something wrong. It happened so that God could show his great work in this man." 
John9:4 While it is still day, we must continue to work. God has sent me and we must do his work. We must work now because it will be night soon. Then nobody can work." 
John9:5 While I am still here in the world, I am the world's light.’" 
John9:6 When Jesus had finished speaking, he spat on the ground. He mixed it with dirt on the ground so that he made mud. Then he put some of the mud on the eyes of the blind man." 
John9:7 Jesus said to him, ‘Go and wash in the Siloam pool.’ (The name Siloam means ‘Sent’.) So the man went there and he washed himself. When he returned, now he could see." 
John9:8 People began to talk about the man. Some of these people lived near him. Others had seen him when he was asking for money. They said, ‘This is the man who sat here. He asked people to give him money. Isn't that right?’" 
John9:9 Some people said, ‘Yes, it is him.’ But other people said, ‘No, it is someone who seems to be like him.’ But the man himself said, ‘I am that man.’" 
John9:10 They asked him, ‘How did your eyes now become able to see?’" 
John9:11 He answered, ‘The man called Jesus made some mud. He put the mud on my eyes. Then he sent me to wash in the Siloam pool. So I went there and I washed. Then I could see.’" 
John9:12 They asked him, ‘Where is this man?’ He replied, ‘I do not know.’" 
John9:13 The people brought the man who had been blind to the Pharisees. 
John9:14 It was a Jewish day of rest when Jesus had done this miracle. He had used mud to make the man's eyes able to see. 
John9:15 So the Pharisees asked the man again, ‘How did you become able to see?’ The man replied, ‘Jesus put mud on my eyes. Then I washed, and now I can see.’" 
John9:16 So some of the Pharisees said, ‘This man Jesus cannot have come from God. He does not obey the rules about our day of rest.’ But other Pharisees said, ‘Nobody who is bad could do great things like this!’ So they did not agree with each other." 
John9:17 The Pharisees spoke again to the man who had been blind. They said to him, ‘What do you yourself say about this man? It was your eyes he has now made able to see.’ The man replied, ‘He is a prophet.’" 
John9:18 The Jewish leaders still did not believe that the man had really been blind. They did not want to believe that he had now become able to see. So they told the man's parents to come to them. 
John9:19 They asked the parents, ‘Is this your son? You say, “When he was born, he was blind.” But now he can see. How did this happen?’" 
John9:20 The parents replied, ‘We know that this is our son. And when he was born, he was blind. We know that, too." 
John9:21 But we do not know how he can see now. We do not know who made his eyes able to see. Ask him. He is old enough to answer you for himself!’ 
John9:22 The man's parents said these things because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders. The Jewish leaders did not want anyone to say that Jesus was the Messiah. They would not let anyone like that belong to their meeting places. 
John9:23 That is why the man's parents said, ‘Ask him. He is old enough.’" 
John9:24 So the leaders again spoke to the man who had been blind. They said to him, ‘In front of God, promise that you will speak only true things. We know that this man Jesus does not obey God.’" 
John9:25 The man replied, ‘I do not know whether he obeys God or not. But I do know one thing: I was blind and now I can see.’" 
John9:26 Then they asked him, ‘What did he do to you? How did he make your eyes able to see?’" 
John9:27 The man answered them, ‘I have told you already and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Maybe you want to become his disciples too!’" 
John9:28 Then the leaders were very angry with him. They shouted at him, ‘No, it is you! You are that man's disciple. But we are disciples of Moses." 
John9:29 We know that God spoke to Moses. But who is this man? We do not even know where he comes from.’ 
John9:30 The man answered, ‘That is a very strange thing! You do not know where this man comes from. But he is the one who made my eyes able to see." 
John9:31 We know that God does not listen to people who do not obey him. But he does listen to good people who do what he wants them to do. 
John9:32 Nobody has ever made the eyes of a blind man able to see, if that man had been blind when he was born. Since the world began, that has never happened!" 
John9:33 So this man Jesus must have come from God. Unless he came from God, he could not do anything like that.’" 
John9:34 The Jewish leaders answered him, ‘Since the day that you were born, you have never obeyed God's laws. You cannot teach us anything!’ And they threw him out of the meeting place." 
John9:35 Jesus heard that the Jewish leaders had thrown the man out. So he went and he found the man. Jesus asked him, ‘Do you believe in the Son of Man?’" 
John9:36 The man answered, ‘Sir, please tell me who he is. Then I can believe in him.’" 
John9:37 Jesus said to him, ‘You have already seen him. It is me, the one who is talking to you now.’" 
John9:38 Then the man said, ‘ Lord, now I believe.’ He bent down on his knees and he worshipped Jesus." 
John9:39 Then Jesus said, ‘I came into this world to judge people. Then people who know that they are blind will be able to see. And people who think they can see will become blind.’" 
John9:40 Some of the Pharisees who were there with him heard this. They asked Jesus, ‘Do you mean that we are also blind?’" 
John9:41 Jesus said to them, ‘If you were blind, God would not punish you for the wrong things that you have done. But you say that you can see. You do wrong things with your eyes open, so God will punish you as guilty people.’" 
John10:1 Jesus then said, ‘I tell you this. A shepherd keeps his sheep in a safe place with a wall around it. There is a gate into that safe place. Anyone who gets into that place by another way, not through the gate, is not the shepherd. That person is a robber. He comes to take away the sheep for himself." 
John10:2 But the shepherd goes in through the gate. 
John10:3 The person who watches the gate opens it for the shepherd. The sheep recognize the shepherd's voice. He calls each of his own sheep by their name and he leads them out. 
John10:4 When he has brought out all his own sheep, he goes in front of them. The sheep follow him because they know his voice." 
John10:5 They will not follow a stranger. They will run away from a stranger because they do not recognize his voice.’ 
John10:6 Jesus told this story like a picture to teach the people. But they did not understand what he was saying to them. 
John10:7 So Jesus spoke again. He said, ‘I tell you this. I am like the gate for the sheep." 
John10:8 All other men who came before me were like robbers. But the sheep did not listen to them. 
John10:9 I am like the gate. Everyone who comes in through me will be safe. They will be free to come in and to go out. And they will find plenty of food. 
John10:10 The robber only wants to take away my sheep. He wants to kill them. He comes only to destroy them. But I have come so that they can have true life. And so that they can have everything that they need. 
John10:11 I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd would die so that he can save his sheep. 
John10:12 Another man may take care of sheep so that he gets money. But the sheep do not belong to him. A man like that is not the shepherd. If a wolf comes, a man like that runs away when he sees it. He leaves the sheep in danger. Then the wolf attacks the sheep. It causes them to run away in all directions." 
John10:13 That man runs away because the sheep do not belong to him. He does not think that the sheep are important. 
John10:14 I am the good shepherd. I know my own sheep, and they know me." 
John10:15 I know them in the same way that my Father knows me. And they know me in the same way that I know the Father. I will die so that I can save my sheep. 
John10:16 I also have other sheep, and I must bring them too. They do not belong to this group of sheep. But they also will listen to my voice. So all the sheep will become one group, and they will have one shepherd." 
John10:17 The Father loves me because I choose to die for my sheep. But after I give my life like that, I will become alive again." 
John10:18 Nobody can take my life away from me. Instead, I myself can choose to die. I have authority to do that. I also have authority to become alive again. My Father has said that I must do that.’" 
John10:19 Again, the Jews could not agree about these things that Jesus said." 
John10:20 Many of them said, ‘He has a demon in him and he is crazy. You should not listen to him!’" 
John10:21 But other people said, ‘A man with a demon in him could not teach like this! A demon could not make blind people able to see!’" 
John10:22 It was the time for the Jewish Festival called Hanukkah. This happened in Jerusalem. It was winter. 
John10:23 Jesus was walking in the yard of the temple, under a place with a roof. The place was called Solomon's porch." 
John10:24 The Jewish leaders stood around him. They said to him, ‘We want to know who you are. When will you tell us? If you are the Messiah, tell us clearly.’" 
John10:25 Jesus answered, ‘I have already told you, but you do not believe. The things that I do by my Father's authority show you who I am." 
John10:26 But you refuse to believe, because you are not my sheep." 
John10:27 My sheep recognize my voice. I know them and they follow me. 
John10:28 I give them life for ever with God. They will never die. Nobody can ever take them away from me. 
John10:29 My Father has given them to me. He is greater than all things. Nobody can ever take my sheep out of my Father's hand. 
John10:30 My Father and I are one.’ 
John10:31 Then the Jewish leaders picked up stones again to throw at Jesus so that they could kill him. 
John10:32 Jesus said to them, ‘I have done many good things. The Father sent me to do them, and I have shown them to you. Which of those good things make you want to kill me with stones?’" 
John10:33 The Jewish leaders answered, ‘We do not want to kill you because of any good things that you have done. We want to kill you because you are speaking against God. You are only a man, but you are saying that you are God.’" 
John10:34 Jesus answered them, ‘It is written in your own books of God's Law that God said, “You are gods.”" 
John10:35 God called the people to whom he spoke “gods”. And you know that the Bible always remains true. 
John10:36 So, when I said that I am God's Son, why am I wrong? The Father chose me for himself. And he sent me into the world. So you should not say that I am speaking bad things against God." 
John10:37 If I am not doing my Father's work, do not believe me." 
John10:38 But if I am doing his work, you should believe that work. Even if you do not believe me, you should believe the things that I do. Then you will know certainly that the Father is in me. And you will know that I am in the Father.’" 
John10:39 Again, the Jewish leaders tried to take hold of Jesus. But he escaped from them." 
John10:40 After that, Jesus returned across the Jordan River. He went to the place where John had earlier baptized people. Jesus stayed there." 
John10:41 Many people came to him. They said to each other, ‘John did not do any miracles. But everything that he said about this man was true.’" 
John10:42 So, in that place, many people believed in Jesus." 
John11:1 There was a certain man, who was called Lazarus. He lived at Bethany, the village where Mary and her sister Martha lived too. He became ill." 
John11:2 It was this Mary who had poured oil with a nice smell over the feet of the Lord Jesus. Then she had cleaned his feet with her hair. It was her brother Lazarus who was ill. 
John11:3 So the two sisters sent a message to Jesus to say, ‘Lord, the friend that you love is ill.’" 
John11:4 Jesus heard the message. Then he said, ‘This illness will not finish with Lazarus's death. No, its purpose is to show how great God is. Because of this, people will see how great God's Son is.’" 
John11:5 Jesus loved Martha and her sister, and their brother Lazarus, too." 
John11:6 He heard the news that Lazarus was ill. But then he stayed in the place where he was for two more days. 
John11:7 After that, Jesus said to his disciples, ‘We should return to Judea.’" 
John11:7 After that, Jesus said to his disciples, ‘We should return to Judea.’" 
John11:8 The disciples said, ‘Teacher, only a short time ago, the Jews there tried to kill you with stones. You should not return there!’" 
John11:9 Jesus answered, ‘You know that there are 12 hours in the day. Anyone who walks during the day will not fall down. He will not fall down because he sees this world's light." 
John11:10 But anyone who walks during the night will fall down. He will fall down because he has no light.’ 
John11:11 After Jesus said that, he said to them, ‘Our friend Lazarus is sleeping. But I will go there to wake him up.’" 
John11:12 So the disciples said to him, ‘If he is sleeping, Lord, he will get well again.’" 
John11:13 The disciples thought that Jesus was talking about sleep as rest. But Jesus meant that Lazarus had died. 
John11:14 So then, Jesus told them clearly, ‘Lazarus is dead." 
John11:15 But I am happy that I was not there with him. I am happy about that because it will help you. Now you will believe in me. We must go to him now.’ 
John11:16 Thomas, who was called Didymus, said to the other disciples, ‘We should go with our Teacher, so that we can die with him!’" 
John11:17 Jesus arrived at Bethany. He discovered that Lazarus had already been in the grave for four days. 
John11:18 Bethany was about three kilometres from Jerusalem. 
John11:19 Many Jews had come there to visit Martha and Mary. They wanted to help Martha and Mary because their brother had died. 
John11:20 Martha heard the news that Jesus was coming. So she went out to meet him. But Mary stayed in the house with the visitors. 
John11:21 Martha said to Jesus, ‘ Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died." 
John11:22 But even now, I know that God will answer you. He will do whatever you ask him.’" 
John11:23 Jesus told her, ‘Your brother will rise and become alive again.’" 
John11:24 Martha replied, ‘I know that he will rise on the last day, to become alive again.’" 
John11:25 Jesus said to her, ‘I have authority over death. I raise dead people, and I give people true life. Anyone who believes in me will live. Even if that person dies, he will continue to live." 
John11:26 People who believe in me while they are alive will never die. Do you believe that?’ 
John11:27 Martha answered, ‘Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Messiah. You are God's Son, the one that God promised to send into the world.’" 
John11:28 After this, Martha went back to the house. She took Mary to speak to her on her own. Martha said to her, ‘The Teacher is here, and he is asking to meet you.’" 
John11:29 When Mary heard this, she got up immediately. She went out to meet Jesus." 
John11:30 Jesus had not arrived in the village yet. He was still in the place where Martha had met him. 
John11:31 There were still Jews in the house who were with Mary to help her. They saw her get up quickly and go out. So they followed her. They thought that she was going to the place where they had put Lazarus's dead body. They thought that she wanted to go there to weep. 
John11:32 Mary arrived at the place where Jesus was. When she saw Jesus, she bent down low at his feet. She said, ‘Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.’" 
John11:33 Jesus saw that Mary was weeping. He saw that the Jews who had come with her were weeping too. When Jesus saw them, he felt very sad in his spirit. He was upset about Lazarus's death." 
John11:34 He asked them, ‘Where have you put his dead body?’ They answered, ‘Come and see, Lord.’" 
John11:35 Jesus wept. 
John11:36 Then the Jews said to each other, ‘See how much he loved Lazarus!’" 
John11:37 But some of them said, ‘He opened the eyes of the blind man. So surely he would have been able to stop the death of Lazarus.’" 
John11:38 Jesus arrived at the grave where they had put Lazarus's dead body. It was a cave. A large stone covered the front of the hole. Again, Jesus felt very upset." 
John11:39 He said, ‘Take the stone away.’ Martha, the dead man's sister, said to Jesus, ‘But Lord, by now his dead body will have a bad smell. He has been dead for four days!’" 
John11:40 Jesus said to her, ‘I told you already that you must believe in me. Then you will see how great and how powerful God is.’" 
John11:41 So they moved the stone away. Jesus looked up towards the sky. He said, ‘Father, I thank you that you have listened to me." 
John11:42 I know that you listen to me always. But I said this to help all the people who are standing here. I want them to believe that you sent me.’ 
John11:43 When Jesus had said this, he shouted with a loud voice, ‘Lazarus, come out!’" 
John11:44 The dead man came out. There were pieces of cloth around his hands and around his feet. Another piece of cloth was around his face. Jesus said to them, ‘Undo the cloths and let him go.’" 
John11:45 The Jews who had come to visit Mary saw this. They saw what Jesus did. So many of them believed in him. 
John11:46 But some of them went to the Pharisees. They told the Pharisees what Jesus had done. 
John11:47 Then the Pharisees and the leaders of the priests had a meeting with the group of Jewish leaders. They asked each other, ‘What will we do? This man is doing so many miracles." 
John11:48 If we let him do more things like this, everyone will believe in him. Then the Roman rulers will come and punish us. Their soldiers will destroy our temple and even destroy our whole country of Israel.’" 
John11:49 One of the group was the leader of the priests that year. He was called Caiaphas. He said, ‘You do not understand the problem." 
John11:50 It is better that one man should die on behalf of our people. That is better than if all Israel's people should die.’ 
John11:51 Caiaphas did not say this because he had thought it by himself. No, he was speaking as a prophet, because he was the leader of the priests that year. That is why he said that Jesus would die on behalf of Israel's people." 
John11:52 And Jesus would die not only for Israel's people. He would also die for all God's people who lived in many different places. He would bring them all together. They would become like one big family. 
John11:53 From that day, the Jewish leaders decided together how they could kill Jesus." 
John11:54 So Jesus stopped travelling about in Judea where everyone could see him. Instead, he went away from there to a town called Ephraim that was near to the wilderness. He stayed there with his disciples." 
John11:54 So Jesus stopped travelling about in Judea where everyone could see him. Instead, he went away from there to a town called Ephraim that was near to the wilderness. He stayed there with his disciples." 
John11:55 It was almost time for the Jewish Passover Festival to begin. Many people were going from their country places to Jerusalem. They were going there to make themselves clean in front of God before they went to the festival. 
John11:56 They were continuing to look for Jesus. While they stood in the yard of the temple, they spoke to each other about him. They asked each other, ‘Do you think that he will come to the festival or not?’" 
John11:57 The leaders of the priests and the Pharisees had spoken to the people about Jesus. They had told them, ‘If anyone knows where Jesus is, you must tell us.’ So then they could take hold of him to put him in a prison." 
John12:1 Six days before the Passover festival, Jesus went to Bethany, the village where Lazarus lived. He was the man who had been dead, but Jesus had raised him." 
John12:2 Some friends prepared a special meal there for Jesus. Martha gave out the food, and Lazarus sat among the visitors, with Jesus." 
John12:3 Then Mary brought a bottle of very expensive oil that had a very nice smell. It was made from pure nard. She poured it over Jesus' feet and then she made his feet dry again with her hair. The sweet smell of the perfume filled the whole house. 
John12:4 Judas Iscariot, one of Jesus' disciples, was there. He was the man who would sell Jesus to Jesus' enemies." 
John12:5 Judas said, ‘We could have sold this oil for 300 coins. That is as much money as someone would get for a year's work. Then we could have given that money to poor people.’" 
John12:6 He did not say this because he really wanted to help the poor people. No, he said it because he wanted the money himself. He kept the bag of money and sometimes he took money from it for himself." 
John12:7 But Jesus said, ‘Do not stop her! She has kept this oil safe until now. She wanted it for the day when they will bury my dead body." 
John12:8 You will always have poor people with you. But you will not always have me with you.’ 
John12:9 By this time, a large crowd of Jews had heard the news that Jesus was at Bethany. So they came there to see him. They came also to see Lazarus, because Jesus had made him alive again." 
John12:10 So the leaders of the priests decided to kill not only Jesus, but Lazarus too." 
John12:11 They wanted to do that because many Jews now refused to obey them. Instead, these Jews believed in Jesus because of what he had done for Lazarus." 
John12:12 The next day, a large crowd of people were in Jerusalem for the festival. They heard the news that Jesus was on the way there." 
John12:13 So they took branches from palm trees and they went out to meet Jesus. They were shouting, ‘We praise God! May the Lord God bless the king who comes with his authority. May he bless the king of Israel!’" 
John12:14 Jesus found a young donkey, and he sat on it. This happened in the way that was written in the Bible long ago:" 
John12:15 ‘Do not be afraid, you people in Zion. Look! Your king is coming. He is riding on a young donkey.’" 
John12:16 Jesus' disciples did not understand all this at that time. They understood only after Jesus had returned to God in heaven. Then they remembered that someone had written these things about him in the Bible. And they remembered that these things had now really happened to him. 
John12:17 The crowd that had been with Jesus before at Bethany continued to tell people about Lazarus. They said, ‘Jesus told Lazarus that he should come out of the grave hole in the rock. He made Lazarus alive again after he had died and his body had been put in there.’" 
John12:18 That is why many people came to meet Jesus. They had heard that he had done this miracle. 
John12:19 So the Pharisees said to each other, ‘There is nothing that we can do to stop this. Look! All the people in the world have left us to go with him!’" 
John12:20 There were some Greek people among the people at the festival. They also had come to worship God. 
John12:21 These Greek people came to Philip, who was from a town in Galilee called Bethsaida. They said to him, ‘Please sir, we want to meet Jesus.’" 
John12:22 Philip went and he told Andrew this. Then Philip and Andrew went to Jesus and they told him. 
John12:23 Jesus said to them, ‘God will show how great the Son of Man is. It is now time for that to happen." 
John12:24 I tell you this. A seed of wheat continues to be only a single seed unless it falls into the ground. It must fall into the ground and then it must die. If it dies like that, it will grow to give a lot of seeds." 
John12:25 Anyone who loves his own life will lose it. But anyone who hates his life in this world will have true life for ever with God. 
John12:26 Anyone who wants to be my servant must follow me. Then he will be with me, where I am. My Father will praise anyone who is my servant." 
John12:27 Now I have trouble in my mind. What will I say? I might say, “Father, save me from this time of great pain!” But this difficult time is the purpose for which I came to the world." 
John12:28 So I will say, “Father, show how great and how good you are.” ’ Then a voice spoke from heaven and said, ‘I have shown how great and how good I am. And I will do it again.’" 
John12:29 The crowd of people who were standing there heard the sound of this voice. They said that it was like the noise of thunder in a storm. But other people said, ‘An angel spoke to him!’" 
John12:30 Jesus said, ‘When this voice spoke, it was not so that it could help me. No, it spoke so that it could help you." 
John12:31 It is time now for God to judge the people in this world. Now he will throw out the ruler of this world. 
John12:32 But when people lift me up from the ground, then I will bring everyone to myself.’" 
John12:33 Jesus said this to show in what way he would soon die. 
John12:34 The crowd said, ‘The Bible tells us that the Messiah will continue for ever. So why do you say, “People must lift up the Son of Man”? Who is this Son of Man?’" 
John12:35 Jesus answered, ‘The light will be with you for only a short time longer. So continue to walk while you still have the light. Do that, so that the dark will not come over you. Anyone who walks in the dark does not know where they are going." 
John12:36 While you still have the light with you, believe in that light. So then you will become children of light.’ When Jesus had said this, he went away. He hid himself from them." 
John12:37 Jesus had done many miracles that the people themselves had seen. But even then, they still did not believe in him." 
John12:38 This showed that the prophet Isaiah had spoken true words when he said: ‘ Lord God, has anyone believed our message? You have shown your great power, but nobody has really understood.’" 
John12:39 Isaiah spoke also about why the people could not believe. 
John12:40 He said: ‘God has caused their eyes to be blind. He has closed their minds. So they cannot see with their eyes, and they cannot understand with their minds. They will not turn to me, so that I can make them well.’" 
John12:41 Long ago, Isaiah saw the great glory of Christ. That is why he said these things. He was speaking about Jesus." 
John12:42 But even at that time, many of the Jewish leaders did believe in Jesus. But they were afraid of the Pharisees. So they did not tell people that they believed. They were afraid that the Pharisees would send them away from their meeting places." 
John12:43 The Pharisees wanted other people to praise them, more than they wanted God to praise them." 
John12:44 Jesus said in a loud voice, ‘Anyone who believes in me does not believe only in me. That person believes also in the one who sent me." 
John12:45 Anyone who looks at me does not see only me. They see also him who sent me. 
John12:46 I have come into the world to be a light for people. Everyone who believes in me will not remain in the dark. That is why I came. 
John12:47 Not everyone who hears my words will obey them. I will not judge anyone who is like that. I did not come to judge the people in the world. I came to save them. 
John12:48 But there is something that will judge people who refuse to believe in me. Those are people who do not accept my message. The message that I have spoken will itself judge people like that on the last day. 
John12:49 The words that I have spoken did not come from me myself. They came from the Father, who sent me. He told me what message I must speak. He told me the words I must say." 
John12:50 The message that the Father has given me causes people to have life for ever. I know that. So I speak only those things that the Father has said to me.’ 
John13:1 It was nearly time for the Passover Festival. Jesus knew that he would soon leave this world and to go to the Father. He had always loved those who were his own people in the world. He continued to love them to the end. 
John13:2 Jesus and his disciples were eating supper. The devil had already put an idea into the mind of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son. The idea was to sell Jesus to his enemies." 
John13:3 Jesus knew that the Father had given him power over everything. He knew that he had come from God. And he knew that he would soon return to God. 
John13:4 So, during the meal, he stood up. He took off the coat that he wore over his other clothes. He tied a piece of cloth around himself." 
John13:5 Then he poured water into a bowl and he began to wash the disciples' feet. Jesus made their feet dry with the cloth that was around him. 
John13:6 Jesus came to Simon Peter. Peter asked him, ‘ Lord, will you really wash my feet?’" 
John13:7 Jesus answered him, ‘You do not understand now what I am doing. But you will understand in the future.’" 
John13:8 Peter said, ‘No! You will never wash my feet!’ Jesus answered, ‘If I do not wash you, you do not belong with me.’" 
John13:9 Simon Peter replied, ‘So Lord, do not wash my feet only! Wash my hands and my head too!’" 
John13:10 Jesus said, ‘A person who has washed his whole body is completely clean. He needs only to wash his feet. And all of you are clean, except one of you.’" 
John13:11 Jesus knew already who would sell him to his enemies. That is why he said, ‘Not every one of you is clean.’" 
John13:12 When he had finished washing the disciples' feet, Jesus put on his coat. He returned to his place at the meal. He asked them, ‘I want you to understand what I have just done for you." 
John13:13 You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right. That is what I am." 
John13:14 I am your Teacher and your Lord, but I have washed your feet. So you also should wash each other's feet." 
John13:15 I have given you an example. You should do the same for others as I have done for you. 
John13:16 I tell you this. No servant is more important than his master is. No messenger is more important than the person who sent him with a message. 
John13:17 Now you understand these things. So you should do them, and God will bless you.’" 
John13:18 Jesus then said, ‘I am not talking about all of you. I know the people that I have chosen. The Bible says, “Someone who ate food with me has turned against me.”" 
John13:19 I am telling you this now, before it happens. So then, when it does happen, you will believe me. You will believe that “I am who I am”." 
John13:20 I tell you this. Anyone who accepts someone that I send to them is also accepting me. Anyone who accepts me is also accepting my Father God who sent me.’ 
John13:21 After Jesus had said this, he felt very upset. He said to the disciples very seriously, ‘I tell you this. One of you will help my enemies to take hold of me.’" 
John13:22 The disciples looked at each other. They did not know which of them Jesus was speaking about. 
John13:23 The disciple that Jesus loved was sitting very near to Jesus. 
John13:24 Simon Peter looked towards that disciple and said to him, ‘Ask Jesus who he is speaking about.’" 
John13:25 So that disciple moved even nearer to Jesus and he asked, ‘Who is it, Lord?’" 
John13:26 Jesus answered, ‘I will put a piece of bread in the dish of food. Then I will give the bread to him. That is the man.’ So he put a piece of bread in the dish. Then he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot." 
John13:27 When Judas had taken the bread, Satan came into him. Then Jesus said to Judas, ‘Do quickly what you want to do.’" 
John13:28 None of the other disciples who were sitting at the meal understood this. They did not know why Jesus said this to Judas. 
John13:29 Judas kept the bag of money on behalf of the group of disciples. So some of them thought that Jesus had asked Judas to buy some things. Maybe he should buy what they needed for the festival. Or maybe he should go and give some money to the poor people. 
John13:30 Judas took the bread and he ate it. Then he went out immediately. By now it was night. 
John13:31 When Judas had left, Jesus said, ‘Now people will see how great the Son of Man is. Because of him, they will also see how great God is." 
John13:32 The Son will show how great God is. Then God will take the Son to himself and he will show how great the Son is. He will do that very soon. 
John13:33 My children, I will be with you for only a short time now. You will look for me. But I tell you now what I told the Jews. You cannot go where I am now going." 
John13:34 I give a new rule to you. Love each other. You must love each other as I have loved you. 
John13:35 In this way, everyone will know that you are my disciples. They will know it, if you really love each other.’" 
John13:36 Simon Peter asked him, ‘ Lord, where will you go?’ Jesus replied, ‘You cannot follow now where I will go. But some time after this, you will follow.’" 
John13:37 Peter said, ‘Lord, why can I not go with you now? I would even die for you.’" 
John13:38 Jesus answered, ‘You say that you would die for me. But I tell you this. Soon you will say that you do not know me. Before the cockerel sings early tomorrow morning, you will say that three times.’" 
John14:1 Jesus said to his disciples, ‘Do not be sad or afraid. Believe in God, and also believe in me." 
John14:2 There are many rooms in my Father's house. I will go now so that I can prepare a place for you there. If it was not true, I would not have told you this." 
John14:3 After I have prepared a place for you, I will return. Then I will take you so that you will be with me. You will be where I am." 
John14:4 You know the way to the place where I will go.’ 
John14:5 Thomas said to him, ‘ Lord, we do not know where you will go. So how can we know the way to get there?’" 
John14:6 Jesus answered, ‘I am the way. I am the truth. I am the life. Nobody comes to the Father except by me." 
John14:7 If you really know me, you will also know my Father. From now on, you do know him and you have seen him.’" 
John14:8 Philip said, ‘Lord, show the Father to us. That is all that we need.’" 
John14:9 Jesus answered, ‘I have been with all of you for a long time. But still you do not seem to know me, Philip! Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. So why do you say, “Show the Father to us”?" 
John14:10 I am in the Father and the Father is in me. You should believe that. The words that I say to you do not come from me myself. But the Father lives in me, and he is doing his work." 
John14:11 I am in the Father and the Father is in me. Believe me when I say that. You have seen the things that I have done. So, if you do not believe my words, believe because of my work." 
John14:12 I tell you this. Whoever believes in me will do the same things that I have been doing. Yes, he will do even greater things than these, because I will go to my Father." 
John14:13 Ask me to help you. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it for you. In that way, the Son will show everyone how great the Father is." 
John14:14 Yes, you should ask me for anything in my name. I will do it for you.’" 
John14:15 Jesus then said, ‘If you love me, do what I have told you to do." 
John14:16 I will ask the Father to help you with this. He will send another Helper to be with you. That Helper will stay with you for ever. 
John14:17 He is God's Spirit and he shows you what is true. The people who belong to this world cannot receive him. That is because they cannot see him. They cannot know who he is. But you know him because he stays with you. And he will be in you. 
John14:18 I will not let you remain alone, like children without parents. I will come to you." 
John14:19 Soon, the people who belong to this world will not see me any more. But you will see me. Because I continue to live, you also will live." 
John14:20 On that day, you will know that I am in my Father. You will know that you are in me and I am in you." 
John14:21 Those people who obey my commands are the ones who really love me. They accept my words and they do what I say. My Father will love everyone who loves me. I also will love them and I will show myself to them.’ 
John14:22 Then Judas (not Judas Iscariot) said, ‘ Lord, why will you show yourself only to us? Why will you not show yourself also to the people who belong to this world?’" 
John14:23 Jesus replied, ‘Everyone who loves me will obey my teaching. My Father will love them. And my Father and I will come to them and we will make our home with them." 
John14:24 Anyone who does not love me will not obey my message. These words that you hear are not my own. No, they come from the Father, who sent me." 
John14:25 I have said these things to you while I am still with you. 
John14:26 But the Father will send the Holy Spirit to be with you. He will be your Helper. He will come in my name, and he will teach you all things. He will help you to remember everything that I have told you." 
John14:27 I will go away but I will give you a gift of peace. It is mine to give and yours to keep. It is not like a gift that this world gives. Do not let yourselves be sad. Do not be afraid. 
John14:28 You heard me say to you, “I will go away, but I will return to you.” If you loved me, you would be happy because of that. You would be happy because I will go to the Father. And he is greater than I am." 
John14:29 I have told you this now, before it happens. So then, when it does happen, you will believe." 
John14:30 I will not talk with you much more, because the ruler of this world will come soon. He has no power over me." 
John14:31 But the people who belong to this world must learn about me. They must know that I love the Father. I do everything that he tells me to do. I must show that to them. Now get up, we must go from here.’" 
John15:1 Jesus said, ‘I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener." 
John15:2 Some branches that are part of me may have no fruit on them. My Father completely removes all those branches. But other branches do have fruit. My Father cuts all those branches to make them better. Then they will be good and make more fruit. 
John15:3 The words that I have spoken to you have made you good already. 
John15:4 Continue to live in me, and I will continue to live in you. A branch cannot make fruit by itself. It can make fruit only if it continues to be part of the vine. You are like that. You cannot make fruit unless you continue to live in me." 
John15:5 I am the vine, and you are the branches. You must continue to live in me and I must continue to live in you. Only if you do that will you make plenty of fruit. That is because you can do nothing without me." 
John15:6 If anyone does not remain in me, that person is like a dead branch. The gardener will throw that branch away and it will die. People throw all those dead branches into the fire so that they burn." 
John15:7 You must remain in me, and my teaching must remain in you. Then you may ask for anything that you want. God will do it for you." 
John15:8 If you make plenty of fruit, that will give honour to my Father. You will show that you are truly my disciples." 
John15:9 I have loved you in the same way that the Father has loved me. Continue to live in a way that shows my love. 
John15:10 If you obey what I have told you, you will be living in my love. In the same way, I have obeyed what my Father has told me to do. In that way, I live in his love." 
John15:11 I want you to be completely happy, in the same way that I myself am happy. That is why I have told you these things." 
John15:12 This is the rule that I give to you: You must love each other, in the same way that I have loved you." 
John15:13 A person really loves his friends if he dies so that they can live. Nobody could love anyone more than that. 
John15:14 And you are my friends, if you obey my message." 
John15:15 A servant does not know what his master is doing. So I do not call you servants any more. No, I call you my friends. This is because I have told you everything that I have heard from my Father." 
John15:16 You did not choose me, but I chose you. I chose you to go and to make plenty of fruit. That kind of fruit will continue always. For that reason, the Father will help you with anything that you ask him. If you ask him in my name, he will do it for you." 
John15:17 This is what I tell you to do: You must love each other.’ 
John15:18 ‘The people who belong to this world may hate you. But remember this: They hated me before they hated you. 
John15:19 If you belonged to this world, this world's people would love you. They would love you because you would belong with them. But I chose you so that you would be separate from this world's people. You do not belong with them, so they hate you." 
John15:20 Remember what I told you: “No servant is more important than his master is.” If they have caused trouble for me, they will also cause trouble for you. But if they have obeyed my message, they will also obey your message." 
John15:21 They will do all these things to you because you belong to me. They will do them because they do not know the one who sent me. 
John15:22 I have come and I have spoken my message to them. If I had not done that, they would not have been guilty of their sin. But now they cannot say, “We have not done anything wrong.”" 
John15:23 Anyone who hates me also hates my Father. 
John15:24 When I was with them, I did many great things. Nobody else ever did things like that. If I had not done those great things among them, they would not have known what is wrong. But they have seen what I did. As a result, they have hated me, and they have hated my Father too." 
John15:25 Their book of God's Law says, “They hated me without any good reason.” What that book already said long ago had to happen." 
John15:26 When I return to my Father, I will send the Helper to you. The Helper is God's Spirit who speaks only true things. He comes to you from the Father. I will send him to you and he will speak true things about me." 
John15:27 You also must speak to people about me, because you have been with me from the beginning.’" 
John16:1 Jesus then said, ‘I have told you all these things, so that you will not turn away from God." 
John16:2 People will send you away from their meeting places. There will be a time when people will want to kill you. When they do this, they will even think that they are doing what God wants." 
John16:3 They will do these things to you because they have never known either the Father or me. 
John16:4 But I have told you this so that you will remember. When they begin to do these things, you will remember that I told you about them already.’ ‘I did not tell you these things at the beginning, because I was with you." 
John16:5 But now I will go to the Father who sent me. But none of you asks me, “Where will you go?”" 
John16:6 Instead, you are now very sad, because I have told you these things." 
John16:7 But what I tell you is true. It will be better for you if I go away. Because, if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I do go away, I will send him to you." 
John16:8 When he comes, he will show the people of this world what they are like. He will show clearly that they are wrong. They are wrong about what sin really is. They are wrong about who is right with God. They are wrong about how God judges people." 
John16:9 They are wrong about sin, because they do not believe in me." 
John16:10 They are wrong about who is right with God, because I will go to the Father. Then you will not see me again." 
John16:11 They are wrong about how God judges people, because God has already judged Satan, the ruler of this world." 
John16:12 I have many more things to tell you. But you are not strong enough to know them now. 
John16:13 But the Spirit will come. He is the one who shows people true things about God. When he comes, he will be a guide to you. He will help you to understand everything that is true. He will not speak on his own authority. He will tell you only what he hears from the Father. He will tell you about things that will happen after this time." 
John16:14 He will take my message and he will tell it to you. In that way, he will give me honour." 
John16:15 Everything that the Father has is mine. That is why I said, “The Spirit will take what is mine and then he will tell it to you.” ’" 
John16:16 Jesus then said, ‘After a short time, you will not see me any more. But soon after that, you will see me again.’" 
John16:17 Some of his disciples said to each other, ‘What does he mean? He says, “After a short time, you will not see me any more, but soon after that you will see me.” He also says, “It is because I go to the Father.”" 
John16:18 What does he mean when he says, “a short time”? We do not know what he is talking about!’" 
John16:19 Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him about this. So he said to them, ‘I said, “After a short time, you will not see me. But soon after that, you will see me again.” Perhaps you are asking each other about that." 
John16:20 I tell you this. You will be sad and you will cry. But the people who belong to this world will be happy. Yes, you will be sad. But soon after that, you will become happy instead." 
John16:21 It will be like this. When a woman is soon to give birth to a baby, she is sad. She knows that it will be painful. But after the baby is born, she is happy. She forgets her pain, because now she is so happy. She is happy because her child has been born into the world." 
John16:22 It is like that for you. You are sad now. But I will see you again, and then you will be happy. You will be truly happy. Nobody will be able to take away your joy." 
John16:23 When that day arrives, you will not ask me for anything. I tell you this. The Father will help you with anything that you ask him for in my name." 
John16:24 Until now, you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask God, and you will receive what you ask for. Then you will be completely happy." 
John16:25 I have spoken to you with words and stories that are like pictures. But there will be a time when I will not speak like that any more. Instead, I will speak clearly to you about the Father." 
John16:26 When that day arrives, you yourselves will ask the Father in my name. I do not say that I will ask the Father on your behalf." 
John16:27 I will not need to do that, because the Father himself loves you. He loves you because you love me, and you have believed that I came from God." 
John16:28 Yes, I came from the Father, and I came into this world. Now I will leave this world and I will return to the Father.’" 
John16:29 Jesus' disciples said to him, ‘Now you are speaking clearly. You are not speaking with words that are like pictures!" 
John16:30 Now we are sure that you know everything. You do not even need to ask people what they are thinking. Because of this, we believe that you came from God.’" 
John16:31 Jesus answered them, ‘You say that you believe in me now." 
John16:32 But it will happen very soon that all of you will run away to your own homes. Yes, that time has already arrived. You will run away and leave me alone. But I will not really be alone, because the Father is always with me." 
John16:33 I have told you these things so that you will have peace. You will be like that because you live together with me. In this world, you will have trouble. But be brave! I have destroyed the power of this world.’" 
John17:1 After Jesus said this, he looked up to heaven. He said, ‘Father, the time has now arrived. Show everyone how great your Son is. So then I, the Son, can show how great you are." 
John17:2 You gave me authority over all people. You did this so that I could give people life for ever. Those are the people that you gave to me. 
John17:3 What does it mean for people to live with you for ever? It means that they know you, the one who is the only true God. They also know me, Jesus Christ, the one that you have sent." 
John17:4 I have shown people here on the earth how great you are. In that way, I have finished the work that you gave to me to do." 
John17:5 So, Father, now that I return to you, show people how great I am. Before the world began, I had great glory with you. Show again that I am great like that.’" 
John17:6 ‘You gave some people to me who were from this world. I have shown them who you are. They were yours and you gave them to me. They have obeyed your message. 
John17:7 Everything that I have comes from you. Now they know that you gave me everything. 
John17:8 I gave to them the message that you gave to me. They accepted that message. They know certainly that I came from you. They believe that you sent me. 
John17:9 I pray for them. I am not praying for the people who belong to this world. No, I am praying for those people that you have given to me. I am praying for them because they are yours." 
John17:10 Everything that I have is yours. And everything that you have is mine. These people have shown how great I am. 
John17:11 I will not remain in the world any longer. I will return to you now. But they will still be here in the world. Holy Father, please keep them safe in your name. That is the powerful name that you gave to me. Then they can be united in the same way that you and I are united." 
John17:12 While I was with them, I kept them safe in the power of your name. That is the name that you gave to me. I kept them safe so that only one of them turned away from you. That was the man who had to become lost. The Bible already said that it would happen in that way." 
John17:13 Now, Father, I will come to you. I am saying these things while I am still in the world. Then these people, my disciples, can be completely happy. I want them to be completely happy in the same way that I am happy." 
John17:14 I have given your message to them. The world's people have hated them because they do not belong to the world. They do not belong to the world, in the same way that I do not belong to the world." 
John17:15 I am not asking that you will take them out of the world. But I ask you to keep them safe from the devil. 
John17:16 They do not belong to the world, in the same way that I do not belong to the world." 
John17:17 Help them to belong completely to you, as they follow the truth. Your message is the truth." 
John17:18 I have sent them into the world, in the same way that you sent me into the world." 
John17:19 On their behalf I give myself to you, so that I belong completely to you. Then they also can completely belong to you, as they follow the truth.’" 
John17:20 ‘I do not pray only for these people, my disciples. I pray also for those people who will believe in me because of my disciples' message." 
John17:21 I pray that all of them will become united. You, Father, are in me and I am in you. I pray that they also will be united in us. Then the world's people will believe that you sent me." 
John17:22 I have given to them the same honour that you gave to me. Now they can be united in the same way that you and I are united. 
John17:23 I will be in them, and you will be in me, so that they can be completely united. As a result, the world's people will know that you sent me. They will also know that you love my own people as you love me." 
John17:24 Father, you have given these people to me. I want them to be with me where I am. Then they will see how great I am. You made me great because you loved me. You loved me even before the world began." 
John17:25 Father, you always do what is right. The world's people do not know you, but I know you. These disciples know that you have sent me." 
John17:26 I have shown them what you are like. And I will continue to show them what you are like. Then they will love other people, in the same way that you love me. And I myself will be in them.’" 
John18:1 When Jesus had finished praying, he and his disciples went out. They went across the Kidron Valley. On the other side, there was a garden. Jesus and his disciples went into it." 
John18:2 Judas, who sold Jesus to his enemies, knew the garden. He knew the place because Jesus and his disciples had met there often." 
John18:3 The leaders of the priests and the Pharisees sent a group of soldiers and some officers with Judas. He led these soldiers and officers to the garden. The soldiers had weapons and they carried lights. 
John18:4 Jesus knew everything that would soon happen to him. He went towards them and he asked them, ‘Who are you looking for?’" 
John18:5 They answered, ‘Jesus, who comes from Nazareth.’ Jesus said, ‘That is who I am.’ Judas, who sold Jesus to his enemies, was standing there with the soldiers." 
John18:6 When Jesus said the words, ‘I am,’ the soldiers quickly moved away from him. They fell down to the ground." 
John18:7 So Jesus asked them again, ‘Who are you looking for?’ They said, ‘Jesus, who comes from Nazareth.’" 
John18:8 Jesus replied, ‘I have told you already, that is who I am. Since it is me that you are looking for, let these other men go.’" 
John18:9 Jesus said this because earlier he had said, ‘I have lost none of those people that you gave to me.’ This made what he had spoken earlier really happen." 
John18:10 Simon Peter had a sword. He took hold of it and he attacked the servant of the leader of the priests. He cut off the servant's right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. 
John18:11 Then Jesus said to Peter, ‘Put your sword away in its place! My Father has decided what great pain I must have. I will obey him completely.’" 
John18:12 The group of soldiers, with their captain and the Jewish officers, took hold of Jesus. They tied him with ropes." 
John18:13 They led him first to Annas, who was the father of Caiaphas's wife. Caiaphas was the leader of the priests that year." 
John18:14 It was Caiaphas who had already spoken to the Jewish leaders. He had told them, ‘It is better that one man should die on behalf of the people.’" 
John18:15 Simon Peter and another disciple followed Jesus. That other disciple and the leader of the priests knew each other. So that disciple went with Jesus into the yard of the house of the leader of the priests. 
John18:16 But Peter stayed outside by the gate. Then the other disciple went out again. He spoke to the girl who was watching at the gate. Then he brought Peter into the yard. 
John18:17 The girl who was at the gate asked Peter, ‘Are you another of this man's disciples?’ Peter replied, ‘No, I am not!’" 
John18:18 It was cold. So the servants and the officers had made a fire. They were standing around it to make themselves warm. Peter went to stand with them, so that he could make himself warm too." 
John18:19 The leader of the priests asked Jesus questions about his disciples. He also asked about what Jesus taught. 
John18:20 Jesus answered him, ‘I have always taught in the Jewish meeting places, or at the temple. Those are public places where all the Jews meet together. I have said nothing secretly." 
John18:21 So you do not need to ask me these questions. You can ask the people who heard me when I taught them. They know what I said.’ 
John18:22 When Jesus said this, one of the soldiers hit him on the face. The soldier said, ‘You should not speak to the leader of the priests like that!’" 
John18:23 Jesus replied, ‘If I said something wrong, tell us what it is. But if I said something that is true, you should not have hit me.’" 
John18:24 Then Annas sent Jesus to Caiaphas, the leader of the priests. Jesus still had ropes tied around his arms." 
John18:25 Simon Peter was still standing there by the fire to make himself warm. The other people there said to him, ‘You must also be one of that man's disciples.’ But Peter said, ‘No, I am not.’" 
John18:26 One of the people there was a servant of the leader of the priests. He belonged to the same family as the man whose ear Peter had cut off. This servant said to Peter, ‘I am sure that I saw you in the garden with Jesus.’" 
John18:27 Again, Peter said, ‘No, that is not true.’ Immediately a cockerel sang." 
John18:28 The Jewish leaders took Jesus from Caiaphas's house to the Roman ruler's big house. It was early in the morning. The Jewish leaders wanted to follow the Jewish rules so that they could eat the Passover meal. They did not go into the ruler's house, because it would have made them unclean." 
John18:29 So Pilate, the Roman ruler, went outside to meet them. He asked them, ‘What wrong thing do you say that this man has done?’" 
John18:30 They replied, ‘We would not have brought him to you if he had done nothing wrong.’" 
John18:31 Pilate said to them, ‘You yourselves take him away. You should judge him by your own laws.’ The Jewish leaders replied, ‘We do not have authority to kill anyone when they have done something bad.’" 
John18:32 Jesus had already told people how he would die. These things happened to make his words become true. 
John18:33 Pilate went back inside his palace. He told Jesus to come and stand in front of him. He asked Jesus, ‘Are you the king of the Jews?’" 
John18:34 Jesus said, ‘Is that your own idea, or have other people spoken to you about me?’" 
John18:35 Pilate replied, ‘I am not a Jew, am I? It was your own people and the leaders of your priests who brought you to me. What have you done?’" 
John18:36 Jesus said, ‘My kingdom does not belong to this world. If it did, my disciples would have fought for me. They would have fought so that the Jewish leaders could not take hold of me. No, my kingdom belongs to another place.’" 
John18:37 Pilate said to him, ‘So that means you really are a king!’ Jesus answered, ‘You have said that I am a king! I was born for this reason: I came into the world to tell people the truth about God. Everyone who believes the truth listens to my message.’" 
John18:38 Pilate said, ‘I do not know what truth is.’ When Pilate had said that, he went outside again to the Jewish people there. He said to them, ‘I do not see that this man is guilty of anything wrong. I have no reason to punish him." 
John18:39 But every year we do something for you Jews. We let one man go free from the prison at the time of your Passover festival. Do you want me to let the king of the Jews go free?’ 
John18:40 They shouted their answer, ‘No, we do not want him! Let Barabbas go free!’ (Barabbas was a man who had attacked people and robbed them.)" 
John19:1 Then Pilate told the soldiers to take Jesus outside. He told them to hit Jesus many times with a whip. 
John19:2 The soldiers used some branches with thorns to make a crown for Jesus. They put it on his head. Then they put a purple coat on him too. They did all this as if he was a king. 
John19:3 They came to him many times and they were saying to him, ‘Hello, king of the Jews, you are great!’ At the same time they hit his face with their hands." 
John19:4 Pilate went outside once more. He said to the crowd, ‘Listen to me. I will bring Jesus out here to you. You should know this: I do not say that this man is guilty of anything wrong. I have no reason to punish him.’" 
John19:5 Then Jesus came out. He was still wearing the crown of thorns on his head and the purple coat. Pilate said to them, ‘Look. Here is the man!’" 
John19:6 When the leaders of the priests and their officers saw Jesus, they shouted, ‘Kill him! Kill him on a cross!’ Pilate said to them, ‘Take him for yourselves and kill him on a cross. I can find no reason why I should punish him.’" 
John19:7 The Jews answered, ‘We have a law which says that he must die. He must die because he said, “I am the Son of God.” ’" 
John19:8 When Pilate heard that, he was even more afraid." 
John19:9 He went back into the house. He asked Jesus, ‘Where are you really from?’ But Jesus did not answer him." 
John19:10 Pilate said to him, ‘Are you refusing to speak to me? Remember that I have authority. I can let you go free, or I can let them kill you on a cross.’" 
John19:11 Jesus answered, ‘You could have no power against me unless God had given it to you. So the man who sold me to you has done a worse thing than you have done.’" 
John19:12 From that moment, Pilate tried to let Jesus go free. But the Jewish leaders shouted back, ‘If you let him go, you are not Caesar's friend. Nobody should say that he himself is a king. That shows that he is against Caesar!’" 
John19:13 When Pilate heard those words, he brought Jesus outside. Pilate sat down on a special seat for the judge. The seat was in a place called ‘Gabbatha’ in the Jewish language. There were large flat stones there, which covered the ground." 
John19:14 It was about noon on the day when they prepared the Passover meal. Pilate said to the Jews, ‘Here is your king!’" 
John19:15 But they shouted, ‘Take him away! Take him away! Kill him on a cross!’ Pilate asked them, ‘Do you want me to kill your king on a cross?’ The leaders of the priests answered, ‘Caesar is the only ruler that we call king.’" 
John19:16 Then Pilate gave Jesus to them, so that they could kill him on a cross. The soldiers took hold of Jesus." 
John19:17 He was carrying the cross on which they would kill him. He went out to the place called ‘The Place of the Skull ’. This place is called ‘Golgotha’ in the Jewish language. 
John19:18 When they arrived there, the soldiers fixed Jesus to the cross. They put two other men on crosses near to him. They were on each side of him and Jesus was between them." 
John19:19 Pilate wrote a notice. Then the soldiers put it on the cross. It said: ‘Jesus from Nazareth, the King of the Jews’." 
John19:20 The place where they put Jesus on the cross was near to the city. So many of the Jews read this notice. They could read it because Pilate had written the words in three languages. He had written it in the Jewish language and in the languages of the Roman people and the Greek people. 
John19:21 The leaders of the Jewish priests said to Pilate, ‘Do not write, “The King of the Jews”. Instead, write, “This man said that he is the king of the Jews.” ’" 
John19:22 Pilate answered, ‘I will not change what I have written.’" 
John19:23 After the soldiers had put Jesus on the cross, they took his clothes. They made them into four parts, one part for each soldier. They also took his long shirt, which was one single piece of cloth." 
John19:24 So they said to each other, ‘We will not tear it. Instead, we will play a game with dice to decide who will have the shirt.’ This happened in the way that the Bible had already said: ‘Each of them took some of my clothes. They played a game with dice to win what I was wearing.’ And that is what the soldiers did." 
John19:25 Some women stood near to Jesus while he was on the cross. They were his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleopas, and Mary from Magdala." 
John19:26 Jesus saw his mother there. He also saw the disciple that he loved. That disciple was standing there, near Jesus' mother. So Jesus said to his mother, ‘Woman, look! There is your son.’" 
John19:27 Then he said to the disciple, ‘Look! There is your mother.’ From that time, the disciple took Jesus' mother to live in his own home." 
John19:28 After this, Jesus knew that everything was now finished. Then he said, ‘I am thirsty.’ He said this so that things would happen in the way the Bible already said." 
John19:29 There was a pot full of bitter wine there. So someone put a piece of cloth into the wine. They fixed the cloth to the end of a branch of hyssop. Then they lifted the cloth up to Jesus' mouth. 
John19:30 Jesus drank the wine. Then he said, ‘Everything is finished.’ He bent his head down and he let his spirit go." 
John19:31 It was the day when the Jews prepare everything for their day of rest. The next day was the day for the Passover meal, so it was a very important day. The Jews did not want the men's bodies to stay on the crosses during that day of rest. So they asked Pilate to tell the soldiers to break the legs of those men. Then they could take the dead bodies down from the crosses." 
John19:32 So the soldiers went there. They broke the legs of the two men who were on the crosses next to Jesus. 
John19:33 Then they went to Jesus. They saw that he was dead already. So they did not break his legs. 
John19:34 But one of the soldiers pushed a spear into Jesus' side. Immediately, blood and water came out of his body." 
John19:35 The man who saw these things has spoken about them. What he says is true. He knows that it really happened. He is telling you the truth so that you can believe. 
John19:36 The Bible already said how it would happen. It says: ‘Nobody will break any of his bones.’ 
John19:37 In another place, the Bible says: ‘People will push a spear into that man's body, and then they will look at him.’ And that is how it really happened." 
John19:38 There was a man called Joseph who came from the town of Arimathea. He was one of Jesus' disciples, but he was afraid of the Jewish leaders. So he had not told people that he was a disciple of Jesus. Joseph went to Pilate and asked if he could take Jesus' dead body away. Pilate agreed. So Joseph went there and he took the body away." 
John19:39 Nicodemus went with Joseph. He was the man who had visited Jesus at night. Nicodemus brought about 33 kilograms of spices called myrrh and aloes. 
John19:40 The two men covered Jesus' dead body with these spices. And they tied long pieces of linen cloth around it many times. That is how the Jewish people prepare a dead body before they bury it. 
John19:41 There was a garden near the place where they had killed Jesus on the cross. In that garden there was a place where they could bury the bodies of dead people. It was a new hole in the rock, where nobody had ever put a dead body before." 
John19:42 The next day was the Jewish day of rest. So they put Jesus in that grave hole, because it was near." 
John20:1 Early on the first day of the week, Mary from Magdala went to the grave hole in the rock. It was still dark. She saw that someone had removed the big stone from the front of the hole." 
John20:2 So she ran to where Simon Peter was. He was with the other disciple, the one that Jesus loved. She said to them, ‘Somebody has taken the Lord's body out of the grave. We do not know where they have put him!’" 
John20:3 So Peter and the other disciple started to go to the grave where Jesus' body had been. 
John20:4 Both of them were running. But the other disciple ran faster than Peter ran. So he reached the grave first. 
John20:5 He bent himself down and he looked inside the hole. He saw the pieces of linen cloth that were lying there. But he did not go in. 
John20:6 Simon Peter had run behind the other disciple. When he arrived, he went into the grave hole. He saw the pieces of cloth that were lying there." 
John20:7 Also, he saw the piece of cloth that had been around Jesus' head. This was not in the same place as the long pieces of linen cloth. Someone had put it carefully in a separate place." 
John20:8 The other disciple had reached the grave first, and now he also went inside. He saw and he believed." 
John20:9 They still did not understand what the Bible already said. It said that Jesus had to become alive again after he had died. 
John20:10 Then the disciples returned to the place where they were staying. 
John20:11 But Mary stood outside the hole in the rock. She was crying. While she cried, she bent herself down to look inside the grave hole." 
John20:12 She saw two angels there. They were wearing white clothes. They were sitting where Jesus' dead body had been. One angel was sitting where Jesus' head had been. The other angel was sitting where his feet had been. 
John20:13 They asked her, ‘Woman, why are you crying?’ She replied, ‘They have taken away my Lord. I do not know where they have put him.’" 
John20:14 When she had said this, she turned round. She saw a man who was standing there. It was Jesus, but she did not recognize him." 
John20:15 Jesus said to her, ‘Woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for?’ Mary thought that he was the gardener. So she said, ‘Sir, if you have carried him away somewhere, please tell me. Tell me where you have put him. Then I will go and I will take him away.’" 
John20:16 Jesus said to her, ‘Mary.’ She turned towards him and she said in the Jewish language, ‘Rabboni!’ (This means ‘Teacher’.)" 
John20:17 Jesus said, ‘Do not hold on to me because I have not gone up to the Father yet. But go to my brothers, the disciples. Tell them, “Now I will go up to my Father. He is also your Father. He is my God, and he is your God.” ’" 
John20:18 Mary from Magdala took this message to the disciples. She went to them and she said, ‘I have seen the Lord!’ Then she told them the things that Jesus had said to her." 
John20:19 On the evening of that same day, the first day of the week, the disciples were meeting together. They had locked the doors of the room because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders. Then Jesus came and he stood among them. He said to them, ‘May peace be with you.’" 
John20:20 After he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples were very, very happy when they saw the Lord." 
John20:21 Jesus said again, ‘May peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, in the same way I am now sending you.’" 
John20:22 When he had said this, he breathed on them. He said, ‘Receive God's Holy Spirit." 
John20:23 If you forgive a person's sins, God will forgive them too. If you do not forgive them, God will not forgive them.’" 
John20:24 One of the 12 disciples was called Thomas. (He was also called ‘the Twin ’.) He was not with the other disciples when Jesus came to them. 
John20:25 So the other disciples told him, ‘We have seen the Lord.’ But Thomas said to them, ‘I will never believe that he is alive again unless I myself see him. I want to see the marks of the nails in his hands. I want to touch where the nails were with my finger. I want to put my hand into his side where the spear went in. If I cannot do that, I will not believe.’" 
John20:26 Eight days after that, the disciples were in the house again. This time Thomas was with them. They had locked the door. But Jesus came and he stood among them. He said to them, ‘May peace be with you.’" 
John20:27 Then he said to Thomas, ‘Put your finger in here. Look at my hands. Put your hand here, in my side. Do not refuse to believe what is true. Now, believe.’" 
John20:28 Thomas answered him, ‘My Lord, and my God!’" 
John20:29 Jesus said to him, ‘You believe because you have seen me. Other people have not seen me, but they do believe in me. God is truly happy with those people.’" 
John20:30 Jesus did many other miracles while the disciples were with him. I have not written about all of them in this book. 
John20:31 But I have written about these things, so that you will be able to believe the truth. You will believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God. Because you believe in him, you will have life with God." 
John21:1 After that, Jesus showed himself to the disciples again when they were by Lake Tiberias. This is how it happened." 
John21:2 Simon Peter, Thomas the Twin and Nathanael were together. (Nathanael came from Cana in Galilee.) The sons of Zebedee (James and John) and two other disciples were also there." 
John21:2 Simon Peter, Thomas the Twin and Nathanael were together. (Nathanael came from Cana in Galilee.) The sons of Zebedee (James and John) and two other disciples were also there." 
John21:3 Simon Peter said to the other disciples, ‘I will now go and catch fish.’ They replied, ‘We will come with you.’ So they went out and they got into the boat. But they caught nothing during that night." 
John21:4 Early in the morning, Jesus was standing on the shore of the lake. But the disciples did not know that it was Jesus who stood there." 
John21:5 Then Jesus asked them, ‘Friends, have you caught any fish?’ They answered, ‘No!’" 
John21:6 Jesus said, ‘Throw your net out on the right side of the boat. If you do that, you will catch some fish.’ So they threw the net out into the water. Then they caught so many fish that they could not pull the net back into the boat." 
John21:7 The disciple that Jesus loved said to Peter, ‘It is the Lord!’ When Simon Peter heard him say, ‘It is the Lord,’ he put on his coat. (He had been wearing only a few clothes.) Then he jumped into the water." 
John21:8 The other disciples followed him in the boat. They pulled the net that was full of fish behind them. They were not far from the shore. It was about 100 metres away. 
John21:9 When they came to the shore, they saw that someone had lit a fire. Some fish were cooking on it. There was some bread there, too." 
John21:10 Jesus said to them, ‘Bring here some of the fish that you have just caught.’" 
John21:11 Simon Peter got back into the boat and he pulled the net onto the shore. It was full of 153 big fish. There were so many fish, but the net had not broken." 
John21:12 Jesus said to the disciples, ‘Come here and eat breakfast.’ None of them was brave enough to ask him, ‘Who are you?’ They knew that it was the Lord." 
John21:13 So Jesus took the bread and he gave it to them. Then he did the same with the fish. 
John21:14 After Jesus died and became alive again, this was now the third time that he showed himself to his disciples." 
John21:15 When they had finished eating, Jesus spoke to Simon Peter. He said, ‘Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these other disciples love me?’ Peter answered, ‘Yes Lord, you know that I love you.’ Jesus said to him, ‘Feed my lambs.’" 
John21:16 Jesus asked him a second time, ‘Simon, son of John, do you love me?’ Peter answered, ‘Yes Lord, you know that I love you.’ Jesus said to him, ‘Take care of my sheep.’" 
John21:17 Jesus asked him a third time, ‘Simon, son of John, do you love me?’ Peter was sad because Jesus asked him a third time, ‘Do you love me?’ So he said to Jesus, ‘Lord, you know everything. You know that I really love you!’ Jesus said to him, ‘Take care of my sheep." 
John21:18 I tell you this. When you were young, you put on your own clothes. Then you went to any place that you wanted to visit. But when you are old, it will be different. You will hold out your arms and someone else will tie your clothes for you. Then they will take you to a place where you do not want to go.’" 
John21:19 When Jesus said this, he was showing how Peter would die. His death would give honour to God. Then Jesus said to Peter, ‘Follow me.’" 
John21:20 Peter turned round and he saw the disciple that Jesus loved. He was the man who had been very near to Jesus at the supper. He had asked Jesus, ‘Lord, who will sell you to your enemies?’ Now this disciple was following behind them." 
John21:21 When Peter saw him, he asked Jesus, ‘Lord, what will happen to him?’" 
John21:22 Jesus answered him, ‘Perhaps I might want him to live until I return to this earth. But that should not matter to you. You must follow me!’" 
John21:23 At that time, people began to talk about these words that Jesus had said. Some disciples thought that Jesus meant that this disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say, ‘He will not die.’ Instead, he said to Peter, ‘Perhaps I might want him to live until I return to this earth. But that should not matter to you.’" 
John21:24 I am the disciple who saw these things. I am the one who wrote them down. We all know that what I have written about them is true. 
John21:25 Jesus also did many other things. If people wrote about all those things, there would be very many books. I do not think that the whole world would have enough room for all those books." 
Acts1:1 Jesus did many things when he was living on earth. He also taught people many things. I told you about all these things in the first book that I wrote for you, Theophilus." 
Acts1:2 Those are the things that Jesus did before God took him up into heaven. Jesus had chosen some men to be his apostles. With the power of the Holy Spirit he told them what they must do. 
Acts1:3 After Jesus died on the cross, he became alive again. During the 40 days after that, he showed himself many times to his apostles. He showed himself in different ways. Then they could be really sure that he was alive again. During this time, Jesus spoke to his apostles about the kingdom of God." 
Acts1:4 One time, when Jesus and his apostles were together, he said to them, ‘Do not leave Jerusalem yet. You must wait there until you receive my Father's gift. My Father promised to give it to you. I have already told you about it." 
Acts1:5 John baptized people with water, but after a few days God will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts1:5 John baptized people with water, but after a few days God will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts1:6 While Jesus' apostles were together with him, they asked him, ‘ Lord, at this time will you now give the kingdom back to us, the people of Israel?’" 
Acts1:7 Jesus replied, ‘My Father decides when things will happen in the world. You do not need to know the day or the time when this will happen." 
Acts1:8 But the Holy Spirit will come to you, and he will give you power. The Holy Spirit will make your spirit strong. Then you will tell other people everywhere in the world about me. You will do that in Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria and in places far away.’" 
Acts1:8 But the Holy Spirit will come to you, and he will give you power. The Holy Spirit will make your spirit strong. Then you will tell other people everywhere in the world about me. You will do that in Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria and in places far away.’" 
Acts1:9 When Jesus had finished speaking to his apostles, God took him up to heaven. The apostles watched Jesus while he went up. Then a cloud hid him and they could not see him any more." 
Acts1:10 The apostles were still looking carefully up into the sky when suddenly two men appeared. They were wearing white clothes and they stood near the apostles. 
Acts1:11 The men said to the apostles, ‘You men from Galilee, you should not still be standing here and looking up into the sky. God has taken Jesus into heaven. You saw the way that Jesus went up to heaven. One day, he himself will return in the same way.’" 
Acts1:12 Then the apostles left the Mount of Olives. They returned to Jerusalem. This was a walk of about 1 kilometre. 
Acts1:13 When the apostles arrived back in Jerusalem, they went to their room. The room where they were staying was upstairs. Those apostles were Peter, John, James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; also James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas, the son of James." 
Acts1:13 When the apostles arrived back in Jerusalem, they went to their room. The room where they were staying was upstairs. Those apostles were Peter, John, James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; also James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas, the son of James." 
Acts1:13 When the apostles arrived back in Jerusalem, they went to their room. The room where they were staying was upstairs. Those apostles were Peter, John, James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; also James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas, the son of James." 
Acts1:13 When the apostles arrived back in Jerusalem, they went to their room. The room where they were staying was upstairs. Those apostles were Peter, John, James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; also James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas, the son of James." 
Acts1:14 All these apostles often met together to pray. Mary who was Jesus' mother, other women and Jesus' brothers also met with them." 
Acts1:15 One day, about 120 people who believed in Jesus were meeting together. Peter stood up and he said to them," 
Acts1:16 ‘My friends, long ago, the Holy Spirit gave King David a message to speak from God. He spoke about the things that Judas would do. Judas was the one who showed the soldiers how to catch Jesus. These things had to happen in the way that David wrote in the Bible long ago." 
Acts1:17 Judas belonged to our group of disciples. Jesus chose him to work together with us.’ 
Acts1:18 Judas received some money for the bad thing that he did. He bought a field with that money. But he fell down in that field and he died. His body broke open and the inside parts of his body poured out. 
Acts1:19 All the people who lived in Jerusalem heard about his death. So they called that field ‘Akeldama’ in their own language. ‘Akeldama’ means ‘The Field of Blood’. 
Acts1:20 Peter then said, ‘This is what King David wrote in the book of Psalms: “Let the house that he lived in become empty, so that nobody lives in it.” David also wrote: “Let somebody else do the job which he did.” ’" 
Acts1:21 Peter then said, ‘Because of this, we must choose another man instead of Judas. That man must have been one of our group all the time that the Lord Jesus was with us." 
Acts1:22 That is, from the time when John was baptizing people until the time when Jesus went up to heaven. He must be someone who saw Jesus become alive again after he died, as we did.’" 
Acts1:22 That is, from the time when John was baptizing people until the time when Jesus went up to heaven. He must be someone who saw Jesus become alive again after he died, as we did.’" 
Acts1:23 So the apostles agreed to choose between two men. One of them was called Joseph. People also called him Barsabbas and sometimes people called him Justus. The other man was called Matthias. 
Acts1:24 Then the whole group prayed, ‘Lord, you know what everybody is really like. Please show us which man you have chosen." 
Acts1:25 Which of these two men do you want to be an apostle instead of Judas? Judas left his work as an apostle. He has now gone to the place where he belongs.’ 
Acts1:26 Then the group used lots to choose the name of one man. It happened that they chose Matthias. So Matthias now became the 12th apostle, together with the other 11 men." 
Acts2:1 Then the day of the Pentecost festival arrived. All the believers were meeting together in one place. 
Acts2:2 Suddenly, as they were sitting together, they heard a noise. The noise came from the sky and it filled the whole house. It was like the sound of a strong wind." 
Acts2:3 Then they saw something that looked like many small fires. The separate fires moved and went to sit on each person there. 
Acts2:4 All the believers became full with the Holy Spirit. They began to speak in languages that they had not learned. They spoke whatever language the Holy Spirit helped them to speak. 
Acts2:5 At that time, Jews who came from many different countries in the world were staying in Jerusalem. They were Jews who carefully obeyed God's Law." 
Acts2:6 When these Jews heard the noise, a large crowd of them came together in that place. As the believers spoke, each person in the crowd could hear the message in their own language. This confused them." 
Acts2:7 They were very surprised and they said to each other, ‘These men who are speaking our languages are all from Galilee." 
Acts2:8 But each of us can hear them speak in the language of our own home country. How can this happen? 
Acts2:9 Some of us are from Parthia, Media and Elam. Some of us live in Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia. Some of us are from Pontus and Asia." 
Acts2:9 Some of us are from Parthia, Media and Elam. Some of us live in Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia. Some of us are from Pontus and Asia." 
Acts2:10 Some of us are from Phrygia and Pamphylia. Some of us are from Egypt. Some of us are from the country of Libya, near the town of Cyrene. Some of us have come from Rome to visit Jerusalem." 
Acts2:11 Some of us were born as Jews. Others of us are Gentiles who now obey God as the Jews do. Some of us are from Crete and some of us are from Arabia. But we all hear these people speaking in our own languages. They are speaking about all the great things that God has done.’ 
Acts2:12 All the people were very surprised. They did not understand what was happening. ‘What does all this mean?’ they asked each other. 
Acts2:13 But some other people laughed at the disciples. They said, ‘These people have drunk too much wine!’" 
Acts2:14 Peter was there with the other 11 apostles and he stood up with them. He began to speak to the crowd with a loud voice. He said, ‘You people who are Jews like us, listen carefully to me. All of you who live here in Jerusalem, you also listen to me. I will explain to you everything that is happening." 
Acts2:15 Some of you think that my friends here are drunk. But they are not drunk, because it is only nine o'clock in the morning." 
Acts2:16 No, something different is happening here. Long ago, the prophet Joel spoke God's message about all this. This is what he said:" 
Acts2:17 God says “This is what I will do in the last days. I will give my Spirit to all people. Your sons and daughters will speak my message to people. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will see things in their dreams. 
Acts2:18 At that time, I will give my Spirit to all my servants, both men and women. Then they will speak my message to people." 
Acts2:19 I will cause strange things to appear in the sky. And I will cause special things to appear on the earth. Those things will show how great I am. There will be blood, fire and clouds of smoke." 
Acts2:20 The sun will become dark. The moon will become red like the colour of blood. Then the day of the Lord will come. It will be a great and wonderful day! 
Acts2:21 Everyone who calls to the Lord God for help will be safe.” ’ 
Acts2:22 Peter then said, ‘People of Israel, listen to what I am saying! Jesus, the man from Nazareth, came with God's authority to do his work. God did many powerful and special things through him. These miracles showed you clearly that God had sent him. You know about all this. These things happened here, and you saw them." 
Acts2:23 God knew that Jesus' enemies would give him to you. God had decided that this should happen. You let people who do not obey God's Law fix him to the cross. In that way you killed him. 
Acts2:24 But after his death, God caused him to become alive again. God saved Jesus from the power of death. It was impossible for death to keep hold of him." 
Acts2:25 A long time ago, King David spoke about the Messiah in this way: “I saw the Lord near me all the time. He is next to me, on my right side, so nothing will cause me trouble." 
Acts2:26 Because of this, I am very happy, and I will praise you, God. I am human and one day I will die, but I know that you will help me while I live." 
Acts2:27 When I die, you will not leave me in the deep hole of death. You will not let anything destroy the body of your Holy One." 
Acts2:28 You have shown me the paths that lead to life with you. I will be completely happy because you will be with me for ever.” ’ 
Acts2:29 Peter then said, ‘Friends, people of Israel, I must speak clearly to you about our ancestor, King David. He died and people buried his body in the ground. You can still see the place where people buried him." 
Acts2:30 He was a prophet. He knew what God had promised to do for him. He knew that one of his descendants would be king of God's people one day. 
Acts2:31 David understood what God would do in a future time. He did not speak about himself, but he spoke about the Messiah. He said that God would cause this man to become alive again after his death. God would not let him remain in the deep hole of death. Nothing would destroy his body." 
Acts2:32 This man that David talked about is Jesus. After his death, God caused him to become alive again. We ourselves saw this happen. All of us saw it." 
Acts2:33 God took Jesus back up to heaven. He caused Jesus to sit at his right side, the place of great honour. Jesus received the Holy Spirit from his Father God, so that he could give the Spirit to us. This is what God had promised to do. God has poured his Holy Spirit on us. Now you are seeing and hearing the result of this." 
Acts2:34 King David himself did not go up into heaven like Jesus did. But David said: “The Lord God said to my Lord: Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies completely. 
Acts2:35 Then you will be able to put your feet on them.” 
Acts2:36 So all you people of Israel must be sure to know this: It is this same Jesus that God has chosen to be the Messiah. God has made him to be our Lord. But you fixed him to a cross and you killed him.’ 
Acts2:37 The people heard what Peter said to them. They were very upset. So they said to Peter and the other apostles, ‘Friends, tell us what we should do.’" 
Acts2:38 Peter said to them, ‘Each of you must stop doing wrong things. You must change how you live. If you believe in Jesus Christ, then we will baptize you. God will forgive you for the wrong things that you have done. Then you will receive the Holy Spirit, who is God's gift to you." 
Acts2:39 God has promised to do all this for you and your children. He has also promised this to people who live far away in other places. The Lord our God will do it for all the people that he has called to come to him.’ 
Acts2:40 Peter also told them many other things. He continued to speak strongly to them. He told them to be careful and he said, ‘People who are alive today do not do what is right. Save yourselves from the punishment that God will send on them.’" 
Acts2:41 Many of the people who listened to Peter believed his message. So the apostles baptized those people. About 3,000 people who now believed in Jesus joined the group that same day." 
Acts2:42 These new believers listened carefully to what the apostles taught them. They joined with everyone else in the group. They prayed together and they ate meals together. 
Acts2:43 The apostles did many miracles which showed that the power of God was with them. As a result, all the people were very surprised and afraid." 
Acts2:44 All the believers continued to meet together often. They shared all their things with each other. 
Acts2:45 They sold some of their own things. Then they gave that money to any believers who needed it. 
Acts2:46 The whole group of believers met together every day in the yard of the temple. They shared their food and they ate meals together in each other's homes. They were very happy and they were honest with each other. 
Acts2:47 All the time, they praised God. All the other people thought that the believers were good people. Every day, the Lord saved more people so that the group of believers grew bigger." 
Acts3:1 One day, Peter and John went to the temple in Jerusalem. It was three o'clock in the afternoon. This was the time when everyone went there to pray." 
Acts3:1 One day, Peter and John went to the temple in Jerusalem. It was three o'clock in the afternoon. This was the time when everyone went there to pray." 
Acts3:2 There was a man who could not walk. He had never been able to walk. Every day, his friends put him at the gate of the temple. It was called the Beautiful Gate. As people were going in through the gate, the man asked them for money. His friends were carrying him there when Peter and John arrived." 
Acts3:2 There was a man who could not walk. He had never been able to walk. Every day, his friends put him at the gate of the temple. It was called the Beautiful Gate. As people were going in through the gate, the man asked them for money. His friends were carrying him there when Peter and John arrived." 
Acts3:3 The man saw Peter and John as they were coming through the gate. So he asked them to give him some money. 
Acts3:3 The man saw Peter and John as they were coming through the gate. So he asked them to give him some money. 
Acts3:4 Peter looked carefully at the man and so did John. Peter said to him, ‘Look at us!’" 
Acts3:4 Peter looked carefully at the man and so did John. Peter said to him, ‘Look at us!’" 
Acts3:5 So the man looked at Peter and John. He thought that they would give him some money. 
Acts3:5 So the man looked at Peter and John. He thought that they would give him some money. 
Acts3:6 Then Peter said to the man, ‘I do not have any money. But I do have something else that I will give to you. Jesus Christ from Nazareth gave me authority to do this. So now I tell you to walk!’" 
Acts3:7 Peter held the man's right hand and he helped him to stand up. Immediately the man's feet and ankles became strong. 
Acts3:8 The man jumped up and he stood on his feet. Then he began to walk about. He went into the temple with Peter and John. He was walking and jumping and he was praising God. 
Acts3:8 The man jumped up and he stood on his feet. Then he began to walk about. He went into the temple with Peter and John. He was walking and jumping and he was praising God. 
Acts3:9 A large crowd of people were there. They saw that the man was now walking. They heard him as he praised God. 
Acts3:10 They said, ‘Look! We know this man. He usually sits at the Beautiful Gate of the temple and he asks people for money. What has happened to him?’ They were all very surprised." 
Acts3:11 The man was still holding Peter and John as they went into the yard of the temple. All the people were very surprised about what they saw. So they ran to Peter and John at the place called Solomon's porch. 
Acts3:11 The man was still holding Peter and John as they went into the yard of the temple. All the people were very surprised about what they saw. So they ran to Peter and John at the place called Solomon's porch. 
Acts3:12 Peter saw all the people who had come together. So he said to them, ‘People of Israel, you should not be so surprised about what you have seen. You should not look at us as if we ourselves are powerful. It is not because we obey God that we could cause this man to walk again." 
Acts3:13 It happened because of Jesus, who was the special servant of God. That is the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and our other ancestors who lived long ago. God has raised his servant Jesus up to a place of honour. You helped the rulers to take hold of Jesus. The Roman ruler Pilate had decided to let Jesus go free. But you turned against Jesus." 
Acts3:14 Jesus was God's Holy One who always did what was right. But you did not accept him. You told Pilate to let another man go free instead of Jesus. That man was in prison because he had killed people. 
Acts3:15 But Jesus is the person who leads people to true life. When you refused him, it meant that you killed him. But God made him alive again and raised him up from death. We ourselves saw him alive after he had died and we are telling you about it." 
Acts3:16 It is the power of Jesus that has made this man completely well again. We believe in him. We know that he has authority. You know this man. You saw that he had weak legs. Jesus has caused this man's legs to become strong. You can all see for yourselves what has happened. Yes, he is now well because we have trusted Jesus and his power." 
Acts3:17 Friends, when you did all this to Jesus, you did not really know what you were doing. Your leaders also did not understand." 
Acts3:18 Jesus was God's Messiah. A long time ago, many of God's prophets spoke about him. They spoke God's message about what would happen to the Messiah. They said that he would suffer. God has now caused these things to happen." 
Acts3:19 So you must stop doing wrong things. Change how you live and turn to God. Then God will forgive you for all the wrong things that you have done. 
Acts3:20 The Lord God will help you. Times will come when he will cause your spirit to be strong. He has already chosen Jesus as the one to help you. He is God's Messiah, and God will send him back to you again." 
Acts3:21 Jesus must stay in heaven until the day that God will cause everything to become new again. Long ago God gave his prophets a message about this, and they told that message to people." 
Acts3:22 For example, Moses said this about the Messiah a long time ago: “The Lord your God will send you a prophet. He will be one of your own people. He will speak God's message as I have done. You must obey everything that he says to you." 
Acts3:23 God will punish anyone who does not obey that prophet. He will no longer be one of God's people and God will destroy him.” ’ 
Acts3:24 Peter then said, ‘All of God's prophets spoke about what is happening in these days. Samuel was one of them, and all the prophets who came later also spoke the same message." 
Acts3:25 You are the people who receive that message from God today. The promise that God made to bless our ancestors is the same promise that he makes to you. God said to our ancestor Abraham, “Through your descendants, I will bless all the people on the earth.”" 
Acts3:26 God chose Jesus to be his special servant. God sent him to you first. He wants to help you, so that you stop doing bad things. That is how he will bless you.’" 
Acts4:1 Peter and John were still speaking to the crowd in the yard of the temple. Then some priests, the leader of the police in the temple and some Sadducees came to them." 
Acts4:1 Peter and John were still speaking to the crowd in the yard of the temple. Then some priests, the leader of the police in the temple and some Sadducees came to them." 
Acts4:2 They were angry because of the things that Peter and John were teaching the people there. They were teaching that Jesus had become alive again after his death. The Jewish leaders did not agree that dead people could become alive again. 
Acts4:2 They were angry because of the things that Peter and John were teaching the people there. They were teaching that Jesus had become alive again after his death. The Jewish leaders did not agree that dead people could become alive again. 
Acts4:3 So they took hold of Peter and John. They put them in prison, because by then it was evening time. They put them in the prison until the next day." 
Acts4:3 So they took hold of Peter and John. They put them in prison, because by then it was evening time. They put them in the prison until the next day." 
Acts4:4 But many of the people who had heard Peter's message believed what he said. There were now about 5,000 men who believed in Jesus." 
Acts4:5 The next day, the Jewish rulers and other important Jews met together in Jerusalem. The teachers of God's Law met together with them." 
Acts4:6 They met with Annas who was the most important priest. Caiaphas, John and Alexander were also there. Other men from the family of the most important priest were with them too." 
Acts4:6 They met with Annas who was the most important priest. Caiaphas, John and Alexander were also there. Other men from the family of the most important priest were with them too." 
Acts4:7 The Jewish leaders made Peter and John stand in front of them. They began to ask them questions. They said, ‘How did you cause that man's legs to become strong? Who gave you the power and the authority to do it?’" 
Acts4:7 The Jewish leaders made Peter and John stand in front of them. They began to ask them questions. They said, ‘How did you cause that man's legs to become strong? Who gave you the power and the authority to do it?’" 
Acts4:8 Then Peter became full with the Holy Spirit and he said to them, ‘All you men are rulers of the people and important Jews." 
Acts4:9 Today you are asking us questions about the good thing that we did for this man. Before that, he could not walk. You are asking us how we caused his legs to become strong." 
Acts4:10 Now I need to tell you and all the people of Israel what is true. Then you will know how this happened. This man is standing here in front of you and he is well. His legs are strong because of Jesus Christ of Nazareth and his authority. You fixed Jesus to a cross so that he died. But after that, God caused him to become alive again." 
Acts4:11 The Bible says this about him: “The builders refused to use a certain stone. They thought that it had no value. But now that stone has become the most important stone at the corner of the building.” ’ 
Acts4:12 Then Peter said, ‘Only Jesus can save people. There has never been another person in the world that could do this. God has not given any other man the authority to save us.’" 
Acts4:13 The Jewish leaders saw that Peter and John were not afraid of them. They also knew that they were not special people. They had not been to any school. So the leaders were very surprised about how Peter and John spoke. They understood that Peter and John had been friends with Jesus. 
Acts4:13 The Jewish leaders saw that Peter and John were not afraid of them. They also knew that they were not special people. They had not been to any school. So the leaders were very surprised about how Peter and John spoke. They understood that Peter and John had been friends with Jesus. 
Acts4:14 The man who was now well stood in front of the Jewish leaders. They could see that his legs had become strong again. So they could not say anything against Peter and John. 
Acts4:14 The man who was now well stood in front of the Jewish leaders. They could see that his legs had become strong again. So they could not say anything against Peter and John. 
Acts4:15 They told Peter and John to go out of the room where the leaders were meeting. Then they talked together to decide what they should do. 
Acts4:15 They told Peter and John to go out of the room where the leaders were meeting. Then they talked together to decide what they should do. 
Acts4:16 They said, ‘What should we do with these men? Everyone who lives in Jerusalem knows about this miracle. They know that Peter and John did a great thing for that man. So we cannot say that they did not do it." 
Acts4:16 They said, ‘What should we do with these men? Everyone who lives in Jerusalem knows about this miracle. They know that Peter and John did a great thing for that man. So we cannot say that they did not do it." 
Acts4:17 But we do not want any more people to know what has happened. So we must say to these men, “You must stop using the name of Jesus. You must stop teaching people about him.” ’" 
Acts4:18 Then the Jewish leaders told Peter and John to come back into the room. They said to them, ‘You must not use the authority of Jesus to teach people any more. You must not speak about him.’" 
Acts4:18 Then the Jewish leaders told Peter and John to come back into the room. They said to them, ‘You must not use the authority of Jesus to teach people any more. You must not speak about him.’" 
Acts4:19 Peter and John replied to the leaders, ‘What do you think God wants us to do? Should we obey you? Or should we obey God? You decide!" 
Acts4:19 Peter and John replied to the leaders, ‘What do you think God wants us to do? Should we obey you? Or should we obey God? You decide!" 
Acts4:20 We know what is right. We must continue to speak about these things. We must tell people about the things that we have seen and heard.’ 
Acts4:21 The Jewish leaders were angry. They told Peter and John that they must obey them. Then they let Peter and John go free. All the people there were praising God because of the miracle. So the leaders could not decide how to punish Peter and John. 
Acts4:21 The Jewish leaders were angry. They told Peter and John that they must obey them. Then they let Peter and John go free. All the people there were praising God because of the miracle. So the leaders could not decide how to punish Peter and John. 
Acts4:22 The man who became well because of this miracle was more than 40 years old. 
Acts4:23 After the Jewish leaders let them go free, Peter and John went back to the group of believers. They told them what the leaders of the priests and the important Jews had said." 
Acts4:23 After the Jewish leaders let them go free, Peter and John went back to the group of believers. They told them what the leaders of the priests and the important Jews had said." 
Acts4:24 The believers listened to what Peter and John told them. Then they all prayed together. They said to God, ‘You are the Lord who rules over everything. You made the sky, the earth and the sea. You also made everything that is in them." 
Acts4:24 The believers listened to what Peter and John told them. Then they all prayed together. They said to God, ‘You are the Lord who rules over everything. You made the sky, the earth and the sea. You also made everything that is in them." 
Acts4:25 Our ancestor, King David, was your servant. You sent your Holy Spirit to him so that he spoke your message. You said through him, “People of other nations were very angry. They made plans to do useless things. Why did they do that?" 
Acts4:26 The kings and rulers of the world met together. They decided to fight against the Lord God and against his Messiah.” 
Acts4:27 Lord God, it has now happened like that. Herod and Pontius Pilate have met together here in Jerusalem. They met with Israelite people and with people of other nations. Together they made plans to kill your holy servant, Jesus. He is the one that you chose to be your Messiah." 
Acts4:28 But you are powerful. These men did only what you said would happen. You had already decided on these events. 
Acts4:29 Lord God, you know that the Jewish leaders want to punish Peter and John. We are your servants. Please help us not to be afraid. Help us to speak your message to people without fear." 
Acts4:29 Lord God, you know that the Jewish leaders want to punish Peter and John. We are your servants. Please help us not to be afraid. Help us to speak your message to people without fear." 
Acts4:30 Show people that you are strong. Cause sick people to become well. Do other powerful things to show that you are God. It is the authority of your holy servant Jesus that will make these things happen.’ 
Acts4:31 The believers finished praying. The house where they were meeting together shook. God filled them all with his Holy Spirit. That made them very brave and they spoke God's message clearly to people. 
Acts4:32 All the believers agreed completely with each other about how they should live. They wanted to help each other. Nobody kept anything only for themselves. They shared all their things with the other believers. 
Acts4:33 The apostles continued to teach about the Lord Jesus. They spoke with great power. They told people, ‘After Jesus died, God caused him to live again. We saw that happen.’ God was very kind to all the believers and he helped them in many ways." 
Acts4:34 Everyone had as much as they needed. Some believers had land or houses, which belonged to them. They sold those things and then they took the money to the apostles." 
Acts4:35 Then the apostles gave the money to any of the believers who needed it. 
Acts4:36 One of the believers was called Joseph. He belonged to the family of Levi. He was from the island called Cyprus. The apostles called him Barnabas because he liked to help people. 
Acts4:37 Joseph sold a field that belonged to him. He took the money from this and he gave it to the apostles. He wanted them to use the money to help other believers. 
Acts5:1 But there was a man called Ananias among the group of believers. His wife was called Sapphira. Together they sold one of their fields. 
Acts5:2 Ananias gave part of the money that he received to the apostles. But he kept part of the money for himself. Sapphira knew about what Ananias had done. 
Acts5:3 Peter said to Ananias, ‘Ananias, Satan wanted you to tell a lie and you have obeyed him. You have told a lie to the Holy Spirit. That is a bad thing to do! You sold your field, but you did not give us all the money. You kept part of it for yourselves." 
Acts5:4 Before you sold the field, it belonged to you. And after you sold the field, the money was yours. You could choose what to do with it. But you chose to do a very bad thing. You did not only tell a lie to us men. You have told a lie to God.’" 
Acts5:5 As soon as he heard Peter say this, Ananias fell down and he died. When people heard what had happened, they were all very afraid." 
Acts5:6 Some young men came into the room. They put cloths around Ananias's dead body and they carried it outside. Then they buried it. 
Acts5:7 About three hours later, Ananias's wife, Sapphira, came into the room. She did not know what had happened to her husband." 
Acts5:8 Peter asked Sapphira, ‘Was this all the money that you and your husband received for your field?’ Sapphira answered, ‘Yes, that was all the money that we received.’" 
Acts5:9 Peter said to her, ‘It was wrong for you and your husband to do this bad thing. You agreed together to tell a lie to the Holy Spirit of the Lord God. Listen! The men who have just buried your husband are at the door again now. They will carry your body out too.’" 
Acts5:10 Immediately, Sapphira fell down in front of Peter and she died. Then the young men came into the room. They saw that Sapphira was dead. So they carried her outside and they buried her body next to her husband." 
Acts5:11 The whole group of believers, and many other people, heard about what had happened to Ananias and Sapphira. They were all very afraid." 
Acts5:12 At that time, the apostles were doing many miracles that showed God's power among the people. All the believers often met together in the yard of the temple in a place called Solomon's porch." 
Acts5:13 The other people were afraid to meet with the group of believers. But people respected the believers very much. 
Acts5:14 More and more people became believers and they joined the group. So now many men and women believed in the Lord Jesus. 
Acts5:15 As a result, people carried their sick friends into the streets and put them on beds and mats. They hoped that Peter would pass that way and make their sick friends well again. They just wanted Peter's shadow to touch them." 
Acts5:16 Many people also came into Jerusalem from the small towns near the city. They brought their sick friends with them. Some of those sick people had bad spirits that gave them trouble. God caused all these sick people to become well again. 
Acts5:17 Many people liked what the apostles were doing. So the most important priest and his friends who belonged to the Sadducees' group were very jealous. 
Acts5:18 These important men took hold of the apostles and they put them in the city's prison. 
Acts5:19 But during the night, one of the Lord God's angels came and he opened the prison gates. He led the apostles out of the prison." 
Acts5:20 The angel said to them, ‘Go and stand in the yard of the temple. Tell the people everything about this new life that God gives.’" 
Acts5:21 The apostles did what the angel told them to do. At dawn they went into the yard of the temple. They began to teach the people there. Then the most important priest and his friends arrived. They told the group of Jewish leaders to meet with them. All the most important people in Israel were in that group. Then they sent their police to the prison to bring the apostles to the meeting place. 
Acts5:22 But when the police arrived at the prison, they did not find the apostles there. So the police returned to the Jewish leaders and they told them the news." 
Acts5:23 They said, ‘We arrived at the prison. We saw that the soldiers had locked the gates. They were standing at the gates and they were watching carefully. But when we opened the gates of the prison, we did not find anyone there!’" 
Acts5:24 The leader of the temple police and the leaders of the priests heard the news. They could not understand what had happened. They were afraid of what might happen next. 
Acts5:25 Then a man came to the leaders. He said to them, ‘Listen! Those men that you put in the prison are now standing in the yard of the temple. They are teaching the people there.’" 
Acts5:26 So the leader of the police took his officers with him to find the apostles. They took hold of the apostles to take them back to the Jewish leaders. But the police officers did not hurt the apostles because they were afraid of the people. They thought that the people might throw stones at them to kill them. 
Acts5:27 The police brought the apostles into the meeting room. They made them stand in front of the group of Jewish leaders. The most important priest said to the apostles," 
Acts5:28 ‘We told you that you must not teach people any more with the authority of Jesus. But now look at what you have done! Now people everywhere in Jerusalem have heard your teaching. You also want people to think that we are guilty for the death of Jesus.’ 
Acts5:29 Peter and the other apostles answered, ‘We must obey God rather than obey people." 
Acts5:30 You fixed Jesus to a cross so that he died. But then the God of our ancestors caused him to become alive again. 
Acts5:31 God raised Jesus and he put him in the most important place at his right side. Jesus is now the one who leads us and the one who saves us. He has made a way for the people of Israel to turn back to God. He wants us to stop doing wrong things. Then God will forgive us for our sins. 
Acts5:32 We tell people about what happened to Jesus. We ourselves saw these things. Now God has given his Holy Spirit to people who obey him. The Holy Spirit also shows that these things are true.’ 
Acts5:33 The group of Jewish leaders heard what the apostles said to them. They were so angry that they wanted to kill the apostles. 
Acts5:34 But one man did not agree. He was called Gamaliel and he was a Pharisee, a teacher of the Law. All the people agreed that he was a good man. Gamaliel stood up in front of the group of Jewish leaders. He told the police to take the apostles out of the room." 
Acts5:35 When they had gone, Gamaliel spoke to the group of leaders: ‘Men of Israel! Think carefully about what you want to do to these men." 
Acts5:36 Remember what happened to Theudas a few years ago. That man told everyone, “I am a very important leader.” As a result, about 400 men joined his group. But then somebody killed him, and all his men went away. Nobody heard any more about them." 
Acts5:37 Later, Judas from Galilee appeared at the time when the Romans were making a list of everyone's names. Many people also came to help him fight against the Romans. But somebody killed him. His men also ran away and nothing more happened." 
Acts5:37 Later, Judas from Galilee appeared at the time when the Romans were making a list of everyone's names. Many people also came to help him fight against the Romans. But somebody killed him. His men also ran away and nothing more happened." 
Acts5:38 Now think about what is happening with these men. I tell you it would be better to leave them alone. Let them go free. If their message only comes from human ideas, all their work will fail." 
Acts5:39 But perhaps what they are doing really does come from God himself. If that is true, then you cannot stop them. You might even find that you are fighting against God!’" 
Acts5:40 The Jewish leaders agreed with Gamaliel. They told the apostles to come back into the room. They told the police to hit them with whips. Then they said to the apostles, ‘You must not use the authority of Jesus to teach the people.’ After that, they let the apostles go free." 
Acts5:41 The apostles went away from the meeting of the Jewish leaders. They were very happy because they thought to themselves, ‘These leaders have done bad things to us because we obey Jesus. That shows that God accepts us as his people.’" 
Acts5:42 Every day the apostles continued to teach people about Jesus. They spoke in people's homes and in the yard of the temple. All the time, they told people the good news that Jesus is God's Messiah." 
Acts6:1 At that time, more and more people became disciples of Jesus. Among the believers, some were Jews who spoke the Greek language. Others were Jews who spoke the Aramaic language. The Jews who spoke Greek had a problem with the other Jews. They said, ‘The widows in our group do not receive the right help. Each day, when you give out the food and money, our widows receive less than they should get.’" 
Acts6:2 The 12 apostles heard about the problem. They told all the believers to meet together with them. The apostles said, ‘Our work is to teach people God's message about Jesus. We do not have time to give out the food and money to people as well." 
Acts6:3 So, friends, please choose seven men from among you. You must know that each of them is full of the Holy Spirit. They must also be very wise. We will ask these seven men to do this work for us." 
Acts6:4 Then we will have more time to pray. We will also have more time to teach people God's message.’ 
Acts6:5 The whole group of believers was happy with the apostles' words. So first they chose a man called Stephen. Stephen believed strongly in God and he was full of the Holy Spirit. The believers also chose six other men: Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas and Nicolas. Nicolas was from Antioch. He was not born as a Jew, but he had joined the Jews later." 
Acts6:6 The group of believers put these seven men in front of the apostles. The apostles prayed for each man and they put their hands on them. They gave them authority to do this special work. 
Acts6:7 So more and more people heard the message from God. The number of people in Jerusalem who believed in Jesus grew more and more. Many of the Jewish priests also believed the message about Jesus. 
Acts6:8 God helped Stephen in many special ways. God's power was with him. He did many miracles among the people which showed that God was with him. 
Acts6:9 But some men spoke against Stephen. They did not agree with what he taught people. These men were from one of the Jewish meeting places in Jerusalem. People called them, ‘The Group of Free Men’. These men were Jews from the cities called Cyrene and Alexandria. Some of them were from towns in Cilicia and Asia. They began to argue with Stephen." 
Acts6:10 But the Holy Spirit helped Stephen to be very wise when he spoke. So these men could not say that he was wrong. 
Acts6:11 Then those men secretly gave money to some bad men. They told them to say to the Jewish leaders, ‘We heard this man, Stephen, say bad things against Moses and against God.’" 
Acts6:12 This made the people become angry against Stephen. The important Jews and the teachers of God's Law also became very angry. So they took hold of Stephen. They took him to stand in front of the group of Jewish leaders. 
Acts6:13 Then they brought in some men to say bad things about Stephen. The things that these men said were not true. They said about Stephen, ‘This man is always saying bad things about the temple. He says bad things against God's Law." 
Acts6:14 We also heard him talk about Jesus, the man who comes from Nazareth. He said that Jesus will destroy this place. He also said that Jesus will change the way that Moses taught us to live.’" 
Acts6:15 All the Jewish leaders who sat there in the meeting looked carefully at Stephen. They saw that his face was very bright, like the face of an angel." 
Acts7:1 The most important priest said to Stephen, ‘These men are saying things against you. Are these things true?’" 
Acts7:2 Stephen said, ‘Men of Israel, my friends and leaders. Listen to what I say. Our great God appeared to our ancestor, Abraham, when he was still living in Mesopotamia. This happened before he went to Haran." 
Acts7:3 God said to Abraham, “Leave your own country and your own family and go to a different country. I will show you where that will be.”" 
Acts7:4 So Abraham left his country where the Chaldean people lived. He went to Haran and he stayed there. While he was there, his father died. Then God said to him, “Leave this place.” God then sent him to live in Canaan. This is where we are living now." 
Acts7:5 At that time, God did not give Abraham any part of Canaan for his own family. He did not give Abraham even a very small piece of ground. But God made a promise to Abraham. He said, “This land will become your own country. It will also be your descendants' country.” When God said this to him, Abraham did not yet have any children." 
Acts7:6 This is what God said to him: “Your descendants will live in a foreign country for 400 years. The people in that country will cause your descendants to be their slaves. They will be very cruel to them. 
Acts7:7 But I will punish those people who cause your descendants to work as slaves for them. After I have done that, your descendants will leave that country. They will come to this place and worship me here.” That is what God said to Abraham." 
Acts7:8 Then God made a covenant with Abraham that his descendants would be his special people. God said, “You must circumcise all your baby boys.” Later, Abraham became the father of Isaac. Abraham circumcised Isaac when he was eight days old. Isaac became the father of Jacob. Jacob himself had 12 sons. These sons became the 12 ancestors of Israel's tribes." 
Acts7:9 One of Jacob's sons was called Joseph. Jacob was more kind to Joseph than to his other sons. For this reason, Joseph's brothers did not like him. So one day they took Joseph and they sold him as a slave. The men that bought Joseph took him to Egypt. There he became the slave of an important man. All this time, God took care of Joseph." 
Acts7:10 God saved him from all his troubles and he helped him to live in a wise way. Because of that, Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, liked Joseph. He saw that Joseph was very wise. So Pharaoh gave Joseph authority to rule Egypt and everyone in the king's own house." 
Acts7:11 Then there was a famine everywhere in Egypt and in Canaan. Everyone was very hungry and they suffered a lot. Our ancestors also had no food to eat. 
Acts7:12 Jacob heard news that Pharaoh had stored a lot of wheat in Egypt. So he sent his sons there to buy food from Pharaoh. This was the first time that they went to Egypt. 
Acts7:13 Later, Jacob sent his sons back to Egypt for a second time. This time, Joseph told his brothers who he really was. As a result, Pharaoh came to know about Joseph's family." 
Acts7:14 After this, Joseph sent a message to his father, that he should also come to Egypt with his whole family. At that time, there were 75 people in Jacob's family." 
Acts7:15 So Jacob went to Egypt with all his family. Jacob and his 12 sons, our ancestors, lived there until they died." 
Acts7:16 When the people of Israel left Egypt, they carried with them the dead bodies of Joseph and his family. They took them back to Shechem and they buried them in a hole for dead people there. Abraham had bought that ground in Shechem from the family of a man called Hamor. He had paid Hamor the right money for it.’" 
Acts7:17 Stephen then said, ‘After many years, the time arrived for God to make his promise to Abraham become true. By this time, Jacob's family who still lived in Egypt had become very many." 
Acts7:18 Now, a different king ruled Egypt. This new king did not know anything about Joseph and what he had done." 
Acts7:19 He was very cruel to our ancestors and he caused them to suffer. When new babies were born, he said that our people must put them out of their homes. He said that because he wanted the babies to die." 
Acts7:20 It was at this time that Moses was born. He was a very beautiful baby. His parents took care of him for three months in their own home. 
Acts7:21 Then they had to put him outside. But Pharaoh's daughter found him and she took him to her home. She took care of him as if he was her own son. 
Acts7:22 Moses had teachers who taught him all the wise things that the Egyptians knew. He learned how to speak well. He could also do powerful things. 
Acts7:23 When Moses was 40 years old, he went to see his own people, the people of Israel." 
Acts7:24 He saw that an Egyptian man was being cruel to one of the Israelite men. So he went to help the Israelite man. He killed the Egyptian man to punish him. 
Acts7:25 Moses thought that his own people would understand him. They would know that God was using him to save them. They would no longer be slaves to work for the Egyptians. But his people did not understand all this. 
Acts7:26 On the next day, Moses saw two Israelite men. They were fighting each other. He tried to make them become friends. He said to them, “Listen to me, men. You are both in the family of Israel. You should not hurt each other.”" 
Acts7:27 The man who was being cruel to the other man pushed Moses away. He said to Moses, “You have no authority to rule us. You are not our judge." 
Acts7:28 I know that yesterday you killed an Egyptian man. So do you want to kill me too?” 
Acts7:29 When Moses heard this, he decided to run away. He went to the land of Midian and he lived there. He married a wife and they had two sons." 
Acts7:30 Moses lived in Midian for 40 years. Then, one day, he was in the wilderness near Mount Sinai. He saw a bush there that was burning. An angel appeared to him in the fire." 
Acts7:31 Moses was very surprised by what he saw. He went near to the bush so that he could see it better. Then he heard the Lord God speak to him from the bush. 
Acts7:32 God said, “I am the God of your ancestors. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.” Moses was very frightened. He was too afraid to look at the bush any more." 
Acts7:33 Then the Lord God said to Moses, “Remove your shoes from your feet, because you are standing in a very special place. This is my own place." 
Acts7:34 I have seen that the Egyptians are being cruel to my people. My people are crying with pain and I have heard them. Now I have come down to save them. So come here and listen to me. I will send you back to Egypt.” ’ 
Acts7:35 Then Stephen said, ‘Moses is the man that the people of Israel would not accept. They had said to him, “You have no authority to rule us. You are not our judge.” But God did send Moses to rule them. God himself sent Moses to save them from the Egyptians. God spoke to Moses through the angel that appeared to him in the bush." 
Acts7:36 So it was Moses who led the people of Israel out of Egypt. He did some powerful things before the people left Egypt. This showed that God was with him. He did more miracles at the Red Sea. Then he led the people through the wilderness for 40 years. He also did more miracles there. 
Acts7:37 It was Moses who said to the people of Israel, “God will send you a prophet. He will be one of your own people. He will speak God's message as I have done.”" 
Acts7:38 This is the same Moses who was leader of our people in the wilderness. He was there with our ancestors when the angel spoke to him on Mount Sinai. He received the message from God to give to us. Those words from God bring life to us. 
Acts7:39 But our ancestors would not obey Moses. They did not accept him as their leader. They wanted to go back to Egypt. 
Acts7:40 So the people said to Aaron, “Please make us some gods that we can carry in front of us. Yes, that man Moses brought us out of Egypt. But now we do not know what has happened to him.”" 
Acts7:41 It was then that the people made something that would be an idol for them. They made it from gold with the shape of a young bull. They killed some animals and they burned them as a gift for their idol. The people then had a big meal together because they were very happy. They thought that they had made something that was very good. 
Acts7:42 But God turned away from his people. He let them do what they wanted to do. He let them worship the stars in the sky. One of God's prophets wrote about this long ago: “God said, ‘People of Israel, listen! When you were in the wilderness for 40 years, you brought sacrifices and gifts to me. But you did not really worship me when you did that." 
Acts7:43 No. You carried with you the idol of the god called Molech. You also carried an idol with the shape of a star, to be like your god, Rephan. These were the idols which you worshipped in the wilderness. So now I will send you away as prisoners. You will go to live in places beyond Babylon.’ ”" 
Acts7:44 When our ancestors were in the wilderness, they carried a special tent with them. It showed that God was there with them and that is where they worshipped him. God showed Moses how he should make that tent. The people made it in the way that God had said." 
Acts7:45 Later, our ancestors received that special tent for themselves. They brought it with them when they came with Joshua to live in this land. They took the land from the people who were living here. God chased out those people so that our ancestors could live there. The tent remained in this place until David became the king of Israel." 
Acts7:46 God was happy with King David and he helped him very much. So David said to God, “May I build a special house where you can live among your people, the descendants of Jacob?”" 
Acts7:47 But it was David's son, Solomon, who built a house for God." 
Acts7:48 But we know that God does not live in a house that people have made. He is the powerful God who is over all. God's prophet Isaiah spoke these words: 
Acts7:49 The Lord God says, “ Heaven is the throne where I sit to rule. The earth is the place where I put my feet. You could not build a house for me where I could live. You could not make a place for me to rest there." 
Acts7:50 I am the one who has made all these things myself.” ’ 
Acts7:51 Then Stephen said, ‘You people do not want to obey God! You do not want to listen to God's true message. You are the same as your ancestors. Like them, you always fight against what the Holy Spirit says." 
Acts7:52 Your ancestors did bad things to every prophet that God sent to them. They even killed the prophets who told them about the Righteous Man that God would send. Now you have given that Man to his enemies. You have made them kill him. 
Acts7:53 You are the people who received God's Law. God caused his angels to give that Law to your ancestors. But you have not obeyed it.’ 
Acts7:54 The group of Jewish leaders listened to Stephen. What he said made them very angry. They bit their teeth together because they were so angry. 
Acts7:55 But the Holy Spirit filled Stephen. He looked up to heaven and he saw the bright light of God's glory. He also saw Jesus, who was standing at the right side of God." 
Acts7:56 Stephen said, ‘Look! I can see into heaven itself. It is open! I can see the Son of Man and he is standing at the right side of God!’" 
Acts7:57 When the Jewish leaders heard this, they put their hands over their ears. Then they shouted very loudly at Stephen and they all ran towards him." 
Acts7:58 They took hold of Stephen and they pulled him out of the city. They removed their coats. They gave them to a young man to keep them safe. This young man was called Saul. Then they began to throw stones at Stephen to kill him. 
Acts7:59 While the men were throwing stones at him, Stephen prayed, ‘ Lord Jesus, please receive my spirit as I die.’" 
Acts7:60 Then he fell down on his knees. He shouted, ‘Lord, please forgive these men. Do not punish them because they are doing this to me.’ After Stephen had said this, he died." 
Acts8:1 Saul was standing there while the Jewish leaders killed Stephen. He agreed with what they did. On the same day that Stephen died, the group of believers who lived in Jerusalem began to have great trouble. People did bad things to them. All the believers left Jerusalem and went to other places in Judea and Samaria. Only Jesus' 12 apostles stayed in Jerusalem." 
Acts8:1 Saul was standing there while the Jewish leaders killed Stephen. He agreed with what they did. On the same day that Stephen died, the group of believers who lived in Jerusalem began to have great trouble. People did bad things to them. All the believers left Jerusalem and went to other places in Judea and Samaria. Only Jesus' 12 apostles stayed in Jerusalem." 
Acts8:2 Some good men who loved God buried Stephen's dead body. They were very sad and they cried with loud voices. 
Acts8:3 But Saul brought great trouble to the believers. He wanted to destroy their whole group. So he went to all their houses. He took hold of the believers and he put them into prison. He did that to both men and women. 
Acts8:4 The believers who had left Jerusalem went to many different towns. In each place, they told the people the message about Jesus." 
Acts8:5 One of them who was called Philip went to a city in Samaria. There he told the people the message about Jesus Christ, God's Messiah." 
Acts8:6 Crowds of people came together to hear Philip speak. They saw him do many miracles which showed that God was with him. So they listened carefully to his message. 
Acts8:7 Many people there had bad spirits, which were living in them. Philip sent the bad spirits out of those people. As the spirits came out, they shouted loudly. Some other people had weak arms or legs, and some people could not walk well. Philip caused many of them to become well again." 
Acts8:8 As a result, the people in that city were very happy." 
Acts8:9 A man called Simon lived in that city. For a long time, he had used magic to do great things. All the people who lived in Samaria were very surprised at what he did. Simon told everyone that he was a very important person." 
Acts8:10 All the people in the city watched Simon carefully. This included the people who were important and all the other people too. Everyone said, ‘This man has great power that comes from God.’" 
Acts8:11 Simon had used his magic for a long time and he had surprised them all very much. Because of that, they listened to him carefully." 
Acts8:12 But then Philip told them the good news about the kingdom of God. He told them the message about God's Messiah, Jesus. Many men and women believed Philip's message, so he baptized them." 
Acts8:13 Simon also believed and Philip baptized him too. After this, Simon stayed near to Philip. He was very surprised at the powerful miracles which Philip did." 
Acts8:14 The apostles who were in Jerusalem heard about all this. They heard that many people in Samaria had believed God's word. So they sent Peter and John to Samaria. 
Acts8:14 The apostles who were in Jerusalem heard about all this. They heard that many people in Samaria had believed God's word. So they sent Peter and John to Samaria. 
Acts8:15 When these two apostles arrived in Samaria, they prayed for the people who now believed in Jesus. They asked God to give the new believers the Holy Spirit." 
Acts8:16 The Holy Spirit had not yet come to any of these people. When Philip had baptized them, he had just used the name of the Lord Jesus." 
Acts8:17 So Peter and John put their hands on the head of each believer, and they each received the Holy Spirit." 
Acts8:17 So Peter and John put their hands on the head of each believer, and they each received the Holy Spirit." 
Acts8:18 Simon saw that God gave the Holy Spirit to people when the apostles put their hands on them. So he said to Peter and John, ‘Here is some money for you." 
Acts8:18 Simon saw that God gave the Holy Spirit to people when the apostles put their hands on them. So he said to Peter and John, ‘Here is some money for you." 
Acts8:19 Please give me this same power. I want to put my hands on other people, so that they will receive the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts8:20 Peter answered Simon, ‘I pray that God will destroy you and your money! You think that you can buy this gift with your money! It is very wrong for you to think that. It is God who gives that gift." 
Acts8:21 You cannot do the work which we are doing. God knows that you are not thinking the right things. 
Acts8:22 You must turn away from those very bad thoughts. Turn to the Lord and pray that he will forgive you. Then perhaps he will forgive you for these bad thoughts. 
Acts8:23 You are very upset because you are jealous. I can see that sin rules your life.’ 
Acts8:24 Then Simon said to Peter and John, ‘Please, pray to the Lord God for me. Then none of these bad things that you have spoken about will happen to me.’" 
Acts8:24 Then Simon said to Peter and John, ‘Please, pray to the Lord God for me. Then none of these bad things that you have spoken about will happen to me.’" 
Acts8:25 Peter and John told the people about the Lord Jesus and they spoke God's message to them. Then they returned to Jerusalem. On their way, they went through many villages in Samaria and they told the people the good news about Jesus." 
Acts8:25 Peter and John told the people about the Lord Jesus and they spoke God's message to them. Then they returned to Jerusalem. On their way, they went through many villages in Samaria and they told the people the good news about Jesus." 
Acts8:26 Then an angel of the Lord came to Philip. He said, ‘Philip, go south to the road between Jerusalem and Gaza which goes through the desert.’" 
Acts8:27 So Philip started on his journey. While he was going along this road, he met an important officer from Ethiopia. This man had authority over the queen of Ethiopia's money. The queen was called Candace. The officer was travelling home from Jerusalem. He had been there to worship God." 
Acts8:28 Now the man was travelling home again in his chariot. He was reading something from the book that God's prophet Isaiah wrote. 
Acts8:29 The Holy Spirit said to Philip, ‘Go to that chariot and walk beside it.’" 
Acts8:30 So Philip ran to the chariot as it went along. The officer was reading aloud from the prophet Isaiah's book and Philip heard him. So Philip asked the man, ‘Do you understand the things that you are reading about?’" 
Acts8:31 The man answered, ‘I cannot understand it. I need someone to explain it to me.’ Then he said to Philip, ‘Come up here and sit with me in the chariot.’" 
Acts8:32 The officer was reading these words from the book of Isaiah: ‘He was like a sheep that people were leading away to kill. He was like a lamb when they are cutting off its wool, but it makes no noise. In the same way, he did not say anything." 
Acts8:33 People did not respect him at all. They refused to judge him in a fair way. Nobody can say anything about his descendants, because his life on earth came to an end.’" 
Acts8:34 The officer said to Philip, ‘Please tell me who the prophet Isaiah wrote about. Was he writing about himself or about another person?’" 
Acts8:35 Then Philip explained to the man the words that Isaiah had written. Then he went on to tell him the good news about Jesus. 
Acts8:36 As they were travelling along the road, they came to a place with some water. The man said to Philip, ‘Look! There is some water here. Please will you baptize me? Is there anything to stop you?’" 
Acts8:37 [Philip said to him, ‘I can baptize you if you really believe in Jesus.’ The man said to Philip, ‘I do believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.’]" 
Acts8:38 The officer said to the man who was driving the chariot, ‘Stop the chariot!’ Then he went down with Philip into the water, and Philip baptized him." 
Acts8:39 They both came up out of the water again. Immediately the Lord's Holy Spirit took Philip away from that place. The officer did not see Philip again. He continued his journey and he was very happy. 
Acts8:40 Philip saw that he was now in Azotus. From there, he visited many towns and he told people the good news about Jesus. He did this as he went all the way to Caesarea." 
Acts9:1 All this time, Saul was still speaking strongly against the disciples of the Lord Jesus. He wanted to kill all the believers. So he went to see the most important priest in Jerusalem." 
Acts9:2 Saul asked him, ‘Please will you write some letters for me? Then I can give one of these letters to the leader of each Jewish group in Damascus. That will give me authority to take hold of any believers that I find there.’ Saul wanted to find anyone who agreed with the Way of the Lord Jesus. Then he would tie them and bring them back to Jerusalem, whether they were men or they were women." 
Acts9:3 He travelled towards Damascus. He was very near the city when a bright light suddenly appeared. The light came from the sky, and it shone all around him." 
Acts9:4 Saul fell down onto the ground. He heard a voice which said to him, ‘Saul, Saul, why do you fight against me?’" 
Acts9:5 Saul asked, ‘Lord, who are you?’ He said, ‘I am Jesus. And you are fighting against me." 
Acts9:6 Now you must get up and go into the city. Someone there will tell you what you must do.’ 
Acts9:7 The men who were travelling with Saul stood still. They could not say anything. They could hear that someone was speaking. But they could not see anyone. 
Acts9:8 Saul stood up. He opened his eyes, but he could not see anything. So the men who were with Saul held his hand. They led him into Damascus." 
Acts9:9 For three days, Saul could not see anything. During that time, he did not eat any food or drink anything." 
Acts9:10 There was a believer who lived in Damascus. His name was Ananias. God gave him a message in a vision. The Lord Jesus said to him, ‘Ananias!’ Ananias answered, ‘Lord, I am here.’" 
Acts9:11 Jesus said to Ananias, ‘Prepare yourself and go to Straight Street. A man called Judas lives on that street. Go to his house. When you get there, ask for a man from Tarsus who is called Saul. He is praying to God." 
Acts9:12 He has had a message from God in a vision. In his vision, he saw a man who is called Ananias come to him. He saw you put your hands on him so that he could see again.’" 
Acts9:13 Ananias replied, ‘Lord, many people have told me about this man. He has done very bad things to your own people, the believers in Jerusalem." 
Acts9:14 Now he has come here to Damascus, and he has brought letters with him from the leaders of the priests. They have given him authority, so that he will take hold of everyone who believes in you. He will tie them and put them in prison.’" 
Acts9:15 But the Lord said to Ananias, ‘Go now to Saul! I have chosen him to work for me. He will go to those who are not Jews and to their rulers. He will tell them about me. He will also tell the people of Israel about me." 
Acts9:16 I myself will tell him about the many troubles that he will have. He will have much pain on my behalf.’ 
Acts9:17 So Ananias went to Judas's house and he went inside. He put his hands on Saul and he said to him, ‘ Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus himself has sent me here to you. It was Jesus that you saw on the road when you were coming here to Damascus. He has sent me to you so that you will be able to see again. God will also fill you with his Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts9:18 When Ananias said that, immediately something like bits of fish skin fell from Saul's eyes. Then Saul could see again. So he stood up and Ananias baptized him." 
Acts9:19 Then Saul ate some food and he became strong again. Saul stayed with the believers in Damascus for a few days. 
Acts9:20 He immediately went to the Jewish meeting places and he taught people about Jesus. He told them that Jesus is the Son of God. 
Acts9:21 All the people who heard what Saul said were very surprised. They said to each other, ‘This is the same man who caused much pain to the believers in Jerusalem. We are sure it is him! Now he has come here to Damascus to take hold of the believers and take them away to Jerusalem. He wants to make them stand in front of the leaders of the priests.’" 
Acts9:22 But Saul became even more powerful when he taught the people. He showed very clearly that Jesus is God's Messiah. So the Jews who lived there in Damascus could not answer him. 
Acts9:23 After many days, the Jews met together. They decided that they would kill Saul." 
Acts9:24 But someone told Saul about this. The Jews carefully watched the gates of the city all day and all night. They wanted to catch Saul and to kill him. 
Acts9:25 But one night, Saul's friends helped him to leave the city secretly. They put him in a basket. Then they put him through a hole in the city wall. Then they let the basket go slowly down to the ground outside the city." 
Acts9:26 Saul returned to Jerusalem. He wanted to join the group of believers there. But they were all afraid of him. They did not believe that he had really become a disciple of Jesus. 
Acts9:27 But one of the believers who was called Barnabas helped Saul. He took Saul to meet the apostles. Barnabas then explained to the apostles what had happened to Saul. Barnabas said to them, ‘Saul saw the Lord when he was on his way to Damascus. The Lord spoke to him there. Then, while Saul was in Damascus, he bravely told people the message about Jesus.’" 
Acts9:28 After that, Saul stayed with the apostles. He went everywhere in Jerusalem and he bravely taught people the message about the Lord Jesus." 
Acts9:29 Saul also talked with the Jews who spoke the Greek language. He argued with them about Jesus. But they wanted to kill him. 
Acts9:30 The other believers heard about this. So they took Saul away to Caesarea. From there, they sent him to Tarsus." 
Acts9:31 By this time there were believers everywhere in Judea, Galilee and Samaria. For some time they had no troubles. The Holy Spirit helped them to become strong. So more people became believers, and they obeyed God in everything that they did." 
Acts9:31 By this time there were believers everywhere in Judea, Galilee and Samaria. For some time they had no troubles. The Holy Spirit helped them to become strong. So more people became believers, and they obeyed God in everything that they did." 
Acts9:32 Peter often travelled to many different places. One day he travelled to Lydda, and he went to see the believers there." 
Acts9:33 In Lydda, he met a man called Aeneas. Aeneas could not move his arms or his legs. He lay on his mat all the time. He had been on his mat for eight years." 
Acts9:34 Peter said to Aeneas, ‘Jesus Christ now makes you well again! So stand up and put away your mat.’ Immediately Aeneas stood up." 
Acts9:35 Many people who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw Aeneas. They saw that he was now well and they believed in the Lord Jesus. 
Acts9:36 There was a woman called Tabitha who lived in Joppa. She was a believer. In the Greek language, her name was Dorcas, which means ‘ deer ’. She was always doing good things to help people. She gave poor people the things that they needed." 
Acts9:37 Dorcas became very ill and then she died. Women washed her body and they put it in a room upstairs. 
Acts9:38 Joppa was not very far from Lydda. The believers in Joppa heard that Peter was in Lydda. So they sent two men to go and to tell him, ‘Please hurry and come to Joppa.’" 
Acts9:39 Peter then returned to Joppa with the two men. When he arrived at Dorcas's house, some women took him upstairs. Many widows were there and they were crying. They all stood there, near to Peter. They showed him the shirts and coats that Dorcas had made while she was still with them." 
Acts9:40 Peter sent all these women out of the room. He went down on his knees and he prayed to God. Then he turned his head towards the dead woman and he said, ‘Tabitha, stand up!’ She opened her eyes. When she saw Peter, she sat up." 
Acts9:41 Peter held her hand and he helped her to stand up. Then he told the widows and all the believers to come into the room. He showed them that Dorcas was alive again. 
Acts9:42 People everywhere in Joppa heard what had happened. As a result, many more people believed in the Lord Jesus." 
Acts9:43 Peter stayed in Joppa for many days. He stayed with a man called Simon, who was a tanner." 
Acts10:1 There was a man who lived in Caesarea and his name was Cornelius. He was an officer in the Roman army. His group of soldiers was called ‘The Group from Italy’. 
Acts10:2 Cornelius was a good man. He and all his family served God faithfully. Cornelius prayed to God every day. He also gave money to help poor Jewish people. 
Acts10:3 One afternoon, at about three o'clock, Cornelius had a vision. He clearly saw one of God's angels. The angel came in and said to him, ‘Cornelius!’" 
Acts10:4 Cornelius looked at the angel and he was afraid. He asked, ‘Master, why have you come to me?’ The angel answered, ‘God has heard your prayers. He knows about all the money that you give to poor people. This has pleased him. Now God is answering your prayers." 
Acts10:5 You must send some men to Joppa. They will find a man who is staying there. He is called Simon Peter. Your men must tell him to come here to Caesarea. 
Acts10:6 He is staying at the house of Simon the tanner. His house is near the sea.’ 
Acts10:7 Then the angel who spoke to Cornelius went away. Cornelius told two of his servants and a soldier of his group to come to him. The soldier was one of those who served Cornelius. He was a good man who obeyed God. 
Acts10:8 Cornelius explained to these three men what the angel had said to him. Then he sent them to Joppa. 
Acts10:9 The next day, at about noon, Cornelius's men were coming near to Joppa. At this time, Peter went up on the roof of the house to pray to God." 
Acts10:10 He became hungry and he wanted to eat some food. While someone was preparing a meal for him, Peter had a special dream." 
Acts10:11 In a vision, he saw heaven open above him. Then he saw something like a large piece of cloth. Somebody held it at each of its four corners and let it come down to the ground." 
Acts10:12 Inside the cloth there were many different kinds of animals with four legs. There were also wild birds and snakes. 
Acts10:13 Then Peter heard a voice that said to him, ‘Peter, stand up and kill some of these animals. Then you can cook them and eat the meat.’" 
Acts10:14 Peter answered, ‘No, Lord, I would certainly not do that. I have never eaten an animal that our Law says is unclean.’" 
Acts10:15 Then, for the second time, the voice said to Peter, ‘God has made these animals good for people to eat. So you must not say that it is not right to eat them.’" 
Acts10:16 All this happened three times. After that, the cloth immediately went back up into heaven." 
Acts10:17 Just then, Cornelius's men arrived there in Joppa. They found Simon's house. When they stopped at the gate of the house, Peter was still thinking about his dream and what it meant." 
Acts10:18 The men shouted out, ‘Is a man called Simon Peter staying here?’" 
Acts10:19 While Peter was still thinking about his dream, the Holy Spirit said to him, ‘Simon, three men have arrived and they are looking for you." 
Acts10:20 Get up and go down to meet them. I have sent these men to come to you. So you should go with them. Do not be afraid.’ 
Acts10:21 Peter went down and he said to the men, ‘I am the person that you are looking for. Why have you come here?’" 
Acts10:22 The men answered him, ‘The Roman officer who is called Cornelius has sent us to you. He is a good man and he obeys God's Law. All the Jewish people respect him. An angel from God told him to send us to you with a message. Then we should bring you to Cornelius's house so that he could hear what you have to say.’" 
Acts10:23 Then Peter said to the men, ‘Please come into the house and stay here with us tonight.’ The next day, Peter left Joppa to go to Caesarea with Cornelius's men. Some believers who lived in Joppa travelled with them." 
Acts10:24 The next day, Peter arrived in Caesarea. Cornelius was ready to meet Peter and the other men. Cornelius told his family and his special friends to come to his house. They were all waiting to meet Peter." 
Acts10:25 When Peter arrived at the house, Cornelius went out to meet him. He went down on his knees in front of Peter to worship him." 
Acts10:26 But Peter lifted Cornelius up from the ground and he said to him, ‘Stand up. I am only a man, like you are.’" 
Acts10:27 Peter continued to talk to Cornelius and they went into the house. Peter saw that many people had come together there in the house. 
Acts10:28 He said to them, ‘You all know that we Jews do not become friends with Gentiles. Our Jewish laws do not let us visit the homes of Gentiles. But God has now shown me something different. I should not say about anyone that God will not accept them." 
Acts10:29 So when you asked me to come here, I was happy to come. I knew that it was right. So tell me now. Why did you ask me to come?’" 
Acts10:30 Then Cornelius said, ‘Three days ago, I was in my house at this time of the day. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and I was praying to God. Suddenly, a man appeared and he stood in front of me. He was wearing bright clothes that shone." 
Acts10:31 The man said to me, “Cornelius, you have prayed to God and you have often given money to poor people. Now God wants to answer you." 
Acts10:32 So send some men to Joppa to bring a man who is called Simon Peter. He is staying there at the house of Simon the tanner. His house is near the sea.” 
Acts10:33 So I sent some men immediately to bring you here. Thank you that you agreed to come. Now we are all here together, and God is with us. We are ready to listen to your message. Please tell us everything that the Lord God has told you to say.’" 
Acts10:34 Then Peter said to them, ‘Now I understand that God accepts all people in the same way. God has shown me that this is true." 
Acts10:35 God accepts all people who worship him and who do the right things. It is not important to God which nation a person belongs to. 
Acts10:36 This is the message that God has sent to the people of Israel. He told us the good news about Jesus Christ, who is the Lord of all people. Because of Jesus, we can now come near to God again." 
Acts10:37 You know about the important things that have happened everywhere in Judea. These things began in Galilee after John spoke God's message to the people. He baptized those people who believed in God. 
Acts10:37 You know about the important things that have happened everywhere in Judea. These things began in Galilee after John spoke God's message to the people. He baptized those people who believed in God. 
Acts10:37 You know about the important things that have happened everywhere in Judea. These things began in Galilee after John spoke God's message to the people. He baptized those people who believed in God. 
Acts10:38 You know that God chose Jesus, the man from Nazareth, to do special work for him. God gave Jesus his Holy Spirit and he helped Jesus to do powerful things. Jesus travelled to many places and he did good things. The devil had power over some people. But Jesus caused all those people to become well again. He could do those powerful things because God was with him." 
Acts10:39 We saw everything that Jesus did in Jerusalem and in all Judea. The leaders in Jerusalem fixed Jesus to a cross and they killed him. 
Acts10:39 We saw everything that Jesus did in Jerusalem and in all Judea. The leaders in Jerusalem fixed Jesus to a cross and they killed him. 
Acts10:40 But then, three days after that, God caused Jesus to become alive again. God caused him to appear to us." 
Acts10:41 Not all the people saw him. God chose us to be Jesus' apostles and we saw him. Now we are telling people about all these things. We ate and we drank with Jesus after he became alive again. 
Acts10:42 At that time, Jesus said to us, “Go and tell people the message about me. Tell them that God has given me authority to judge all people. I will judge those who are now alive. And I will judge those who have died.” ’" 
Acts10:43 Then Peter said, ‘All of God's prophets spoke about Jesus as God's Messiah. They said that God would forgive everyone who believes in him. He would forgive them for their sins because of what Jesus, the Messiah, would do.’" 
Acts10:44 While Peter was still speaking, the Holy Spirit came down on all the people who were listening to his message." 
Acts10:45 The Jewish believers who had come from Joppa with Peter were very surprised. They saw that God had now freely given his Holy Spirit to Gentiles. 
Acts10:46 They heard the new believers speaking in strange languages. They were also praising God. Then Peter said," 
Acts10:47 ‘God has clearly given his Holy Spirit to these people, in the same way that he gave him to us. So we should now baptize them with water. You surely agree that this is the right thing to do.’" 
Acts10:48 So Peter told the Jewish believers to baptize the new believers. They baptized them in the name of Jesus Christ. After that, Cornelius asked Peter to stay with them for a few days." 
Acts11:1 The apostles and the other believers in Judea heard that Gentiles had also believed the message from God. 
Acts11:1 The apostles and the other believers in Judea heard that Gentiles had also believed the message from God. 
Acts11:2 Peter then returned from Caesarea and he arrived in Jerusalem. Some of the Jews there who were believers spoke against him. These Jews thought that all believers should be circumcised. 
Acts11:3 So they said to Peter, ‘You stayed in the house of men who were not circumcised. You even ate meals with them!’" 
Acts11:4 Peter then began to explain everything that had happened. He said to them," 
Acts11:5 ‘I was staying in a house in the city of Joppa. One day, when I was praying, I had a special dream. In this vision, I saw something that came down from heaven. It was like a large piece of cloth. Somebody held it at each of its four corners and let it come down to the ground next to me." 
Acts11:6 I looked carefully at it. I saw that there were farm animals with four legs inside the cloth. There were also wild animals, snakes and birds in it." 
Acts11:7 Then I heard a voice that said to me, “Peter, stand up and kill some of these animals. Then you can cook them and eat the meat.”" 
Acts11:8 But I answered, “No, Lord, I would certainly not do that. I have never eaten an animal that our Law says is unclean.”" 
Acts11:9 Then the voice spoke to me from heaven again. It said, “God has made these animals good for people to eat. So you must not say that it is not right to eat them.”" 
Acts11:10 All this happened three times. After that, the cloth went back up into heaven again." 
Acts11:11 At that moment, three men from Caesarea arrived at the house where I was staying. Someone had sent these men to find me." 
Acts11:12 The Holy Spirit told me that I should go with them. He said that I should not be afraid. These six believers from Joppa also went with me to Caesarea. We all went into Cornelius's house. 
Acts11:13 Then Cornelius told us what had happened to him. He had seen an angel who appeared in his house and said to him, “Send some men to Joppa to bring a man who is called Simon Peter." 
Acts11:14 He will come and speak to you. His message will tell you how God will save you and everyone else in your house.” 
Acts11:15 When I started to speak to Cornelius and his family, the Holy Spirit came down on them. It happened in the same way that he first came down on us at the beginning." 
Acts11:16 Then I remembered what the Lord Jesus had said to us: “John baptized people with water, but God will baptize you with his Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts11:16 Then I remembered what the Lord Jesus had said to us: “John baptized people with water, but God will baptize you with his Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts11:17 So we see that God gave these Gentiles his gift of the Holy Spirit. This is the same gift that he gave to us Jews who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. So I could never try to stop God.’ 
Acts11:18 The Jewish believers heard what Peter said. They could not say anything more against him. Instead, they praised God and they said, ‘We now see that God has also let Gentiles have life with him. He will accept them if they stop doing bad things and turn to him.’" 
Acts11:19 After the Jewish leaders had killed Stephen, the believers had a lot of trouble. Many believers left Jerusalem and they went to many different places. Some of them went away as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus and Antioch. They told God's message to people in these places. But they only told the message to Jews." 
Acts11:20 Some of the believers were people who came from Cyprus and Cyrene. These men went to Antioch. There they told God's message to Gentiles, as well as to Jews. They told everyone the good news about the Lord Jesus." 
Acts11:21 The Lord God helped these men with his power. Very many people believed their message and they trusted in the Lord Jesus. 
Acts11:22 The believers in Jerusalem heard about what had happened in Antioch. So they decided to send Barnabas there. 
Acts11:23 Barnabas arrived in Antioch. He saw how God had been kind to the people there and helped them. Barnabas was happy about this. So he said to the new believers, ‘Continue to trust the Lord Jesus completely.’" 
Acts11:24 Barnabas was a good man. The power of God's Holy Spirit was with him. He trusted God completely. Many people in Antioch believed in Jesus and joined the group of believers. 
Acts11:25 Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul. 
Acts11:26 When Barnabas found him, he brought him back to Antioch. For one whole year, Barnabas and Saul met together with the group of believers there. They taught very many of them about Jesus. Antioch was the first place where the believers were called Christians." 
Acts11:27 During this time, some prophets travelled from Jerusalem to Antioch." 
Acts11:28 One of these men was called Agabus. The Holy Spirit gave him a message from God. He stood up and he said to the people there, ‘Soon people will be very hungry all over the world because there will be no food.’ (That happened when Claudius ruled the Roman world.)" 
Acts11:29 The believers in Antioch wanted to help the other believers who lived in Judea. Each of them decided how much of their own money they could give. 
Acts11:29 The believers in Antioch wanted to help the other believers who lived in Judea. Each of them decided how much of their own money they could give. 
Acts11:30 Then they gave the money to Barnabas and Saul. Barnabas and Saul took this gift to the leaders of the believers in Jerusalem. 
Acts12:1 At that time, King Herod took hold of some of the group of believers in Jerusalem. He wanted to cause them to suffer." 
Acts12:2 He sent his soldiers to cut off James's head. James was John's brother. 
Acts12:2 He sent his soldiers to cut off James's head. James was John's brother. 
Acts12:2 He sent his soldiers to cut off James's head. James was John's brother. 
Acts12:3 King Herod saw that the Jews were happy because he had killed James. So he sent his soldiers to take hold of Peter too. This happened during the Festival of Flat Bread. 
Acts12:3 King Herod saw that the Jews were happy because he had killed James. So he sent his soldiers to take hold of Peter too. This happened during the Festival of Flat Bread. 
Acts12:4 After the soldiers caught Peter, they put him in prison. While he was in prison, four different groups of soldiers guarded him. There were four soldiers in each group. Herod wanted to judge Peter in front of everybody. After the Passover festival had finished, he would bring Peter out of the prison to do this." 
Acts12:5 So Herod kept Peter in prison. But during that time, the group of believers prayed that God would help Peter." 
Acts12:6 It was the night before King Herod wanted to bring Peter out of the prison and judge him. The soldiers had tied Peter to themselves with chains. So Peter was sleeping between two soldiers. Some other soldiers were guarding the doors of the prison. 
Acts12:7 Then, an angel from the Lord God suddenly appeared in the prison. A bright light shone in the room where Peter was sleeping. The angel touched Peter's shoulder so that Peter woke up. He said to Peter, ‘Hurry! Stand up!’ Immediately the chains fell off Peter's hands." 
Acts12:8 Then the angel said to him, ‘Put on your clothes and your shoes.’ Peter did what the angel told him to do. Then the angel said, ‘Now put on your coat and follow me.’" 
Acts12:9 So Peter followed the angel out of the prison. He was not sure that all these things were really happening to him. He thought that he might be dreaming. 
Acts12:10 Peter and the angel walked past the first group of soldiers in the prison. Then they walked past the second group of soldiers. After that, they came to the big metal gate in the wall of the prison. The city was outside this gate. The gate opened by itself in front of them. So Peter and the angel went out of the prison through the gate. They walked together along one street and then, suddenly, the angel went away." 
Acts12:11 Then Peter understood what had happened. He said to himself, ‘Now I know that these things really have happened to me. The Lord God sent one of his angels to rescue me from Herod's power. The Jewish leaders wanted Herod to cause me to suffer. But God has saved me from those bad things.’" 
Acts12:12 When Peter realized what God had done for him, he went to Mary's house. She was the mother of John Mark. Many people were meeting together in her house. They were praying to God." 
Acts12:12 When Peter realized what God had done for him, he went to Mary's house. She was the mother of John Mark. Many people were meeting together in her house. They were praying to God." 
Acts12:12 When Peter realized what God had done for him, he went to Mary's house. She was the mother of John Mark. Many people were meeting together in her house. They were praying to God." 
Acts12:13 Peter knocked on the outside door of the house. A servant girl called Rhoda came to the door. 
Acts12:14 She recognized Peter's voice and she was very happy. But she did not open the door. Instead, she ran back into the house and she said to all the people there, ‘Peter is standing outside the door!’" 
Acts12:15 The people in the house said to her, ‘You are crazy.’ But she told them again that Peter really was there. So then they said, ‘It is not him, but it is his angel.’" 
Acts12:16 While all this was happening, Peter was still knocking at the door. Then someone went and opened the door. They were all very surprised when they saw him there." 
Acts12:17 Peter raised his hand towards them so that they would all be quiet. Then he explained to them how the Lord God had brought him out of the prison. He said to them, ‘Tell James and all the other believers what has happened to me.’ Then he left the house and he went away to another place." 
Acts12:17 Peter raised his hand towards them so that they would all be quiet. Then he explained to them how the Lord God had brought him out of the prison. He said to them, ‘Tell James and all the other believers what has happened to me.’ Then he left the house and he went away to another place." 
Acts12:18 When morning arrived, there was a lot of trouble at the prison. The soldiers did not understand what had happened to Peter." 
Acts12:19 When Herod knew about it, he said to the soldiers, ‘Go and look for Peter!’ But they could not find him anywhere. Herod then asked the soldiers who guarded the prison some questions. They could not explain what had happened. So Herod commanded other soldiers to cut off their heads. After this happened, Herod left Judea. He went to Caesarea and he stayed there for some time." 
Acts12:19 When Herod knew about it, he said to the soldiers, ‘Go and look for Peter!’ But they could not find him anywhere. Herod then asked the soldiers who guarded the prison some questions. They could not explain what had happened. So Herod commanded other soldiers to cut off their heads. After this happened, Herod left Judea. He went to Caesarea and he stayed there for some time." 
Acts12:20 At that time, King Herod was angry with the people who lived in Tyre and Sidon. A group of men from these cities went together to speak to Herod about the problem. A man called Blastus was an important servant in King Herod's house. The group of men said to Blastus, ‘Please help us when we speak to King Herod.’ Then they went and they said to Herod, ‘Please stop being angry with our people. We want to be friends again.’ They said this because they needed to buy food in King Herod's country." 
Acts12:21 Herod decided on which day he would meet with them. He put on his beautiful clothes and he sat in his special seat as king. Then he spoke his message to all the people. 
Acts12:22 When he spoke, the people shouted, ‘This is not a man who is speaking to us. This is the voice of a god!’" 
Acts12:23 Herod let the people praise him, instead of God. So, immediately, an angel of the Lord caused him to become very ill. Worms ate his body and later he died." 
Acts12:24 Everywhere that the believers went, they told people God's message. People heard the message in more and more places and many of them believed in Jesus." 
Acts12:25 Barnabas and Saul had gone to Jerusalem to help the believers there. They finished their work and then they returned to Antioch. They took John Mark with them. 
Acts12:25 Barnabas and Saul had gone to Jerusalem to help the believers there. They finished their work and then they returned to Antioch. They took John Mark with them. 
Acts12:25 Barnabas and Saul had gone to Jerusalem to help the believers there. They finished their work and then they returned to Antioch. They took John Mark with them. 
Acts13:1 There were some prophets among the group of believers in Antioch. They taught the other believers more about Jesus. Barnabas and Simeon were two of these men. (People also called Simeon ‘Niger’.) There was Lucius who had lived in Cyrene. There was also Manaen who had lived together with the ruler Herod when they were children. And there was Saul. 
Acts13:2 One day, the believers were meeting together. They were praising the Lord God and they were praying. They also fasted for a time. During that time, the Holy Spirit said to them, ‘I have chosen Barnabas and Saul to do a special work for me. Let them go now and do it.’" 
Acts13:3 The believers continued to fast and to pray. Then the leaders put their hands on Barnabas and Saul and they prayed for them. They sent them away to start this new work. 
Acts13:4 The Holy Spirit sent Barnabas and Saul away from Antioch. They travelled to the town of Seleucia, which is near the coast. From there they travelled on a ship to an island called Cyprus." 
Acts13:5 They arrived at a town called Salamis. There they went into the Jewish meeting places and they told the people God's message about Jesus. John Mark went with Barnabas and Saul to help them with their work. 
Acts13:5 They arrived at a town called Salamis. There they went into the Jewish meeting places and they told the people God's message about Jesus. John Mark went with Barnabas and Saul to help them with their work. 
Acts13:5 They arrived at a town called Salamis. There they went into the Jewish meeting places and they told the people God's message about Jesus. John Mark went with Barnabas and Saul to help them with their work. 
Acts13:6 They travelled across the whole island and they arrived at a town called Paphos. There they met a man called Bar-Jesus. He was a Jew. He used magic to do surprising things. He said that he was a prophet from God. But his messages were not true. 
Acts13:7 The ruler of Cyprus was called Sergius Paulus. Bar-Jesus was his friend. Sergius Paulus understood things well. So he asked Barnabas and Saul to come to him. He wanted them to tell him God's message. 
Acts13:8 Bar-Jesus was also called Elymas. That was his name in the Greek language. He did not like what Barnabas and Saul were saying. He did not want Sergius Paulus to believe in Jesus. So he tried to stop him. 
Acts13:9 Then God filled Saul with the power of his Holy Spirit. (Saul was also now called Paul.) Paul looked straight at Elymas and he said," 
Acts13:10 ‘You are a servant of the devil! You are against everything that is right. Your mind is full of lies and other bad things. You try to change the true message of the Lord and make it into lies. You must stop doing that! 
Acts13:11 The Lord will now punish you. You will become blind for a time. You will not even see the light of the sun.’ When Paul said that, immediately something like a dark cloud covered Elymas's eyes. He could not find his own way. He needed someone to lead him by the hand." 
Acts13:12 Sergius Paulus saw what had happened to Elymas. He was very surprised about the things that Barnabas and Paul taught him about the Lord Jesus. And so he believed in Jesus. 
Acts13:13 Paul and the two other men got in a ship and they sailed away from Paphos. They arrived at a town called Perga, which is in the region called Pamphylia. John Mark left them there and he returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:13 Paul and the two other men got in a ship and they sailed away from Paphos. They arrived at a town called Perga, which is in the region called Pamphylia. John Mark left them there and he returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:13 Paul and the two other men got in a ship and they sailed away from Paphos. They arrived at a town called Perga, which is in the region called Pamphylia. John Mark left them there and he returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:14 Paul and Barnabas left Perga, and they went to a town called Antioch in Pisidia. On the Jewish day of rest, they went into the meeting place and they sat down." 
Acts13:15 Someone read aloud some words from the Bible. They read from God's Law and from the messages of God's prophets. After this, the leaders of the Jewish meeting place passed a note to Paul and Barnabas. The note said, ‘Friends, do you have a message that will help the people? If you do, please speak now.’" 
Acts13:16 So Paul stood up. He raised his hand towards the people so that they would listen to him. Then he said to them, ‘Some of you are Jews, like us. Some of you are Gentiles who now worship our God. All of you, listen carefully to me." 
Acts13:17 The God of the people of Israel chose our ancestors to be his people. While they lived in Egypt, God caused his people to become a very large group. They lived as foreign people in Egypt. But God used his great power to bring them out from that country." 
Acts13:18 The people of Israel did not obey God. But God took care of them in the wilderness for 40 years. 
Acts13:19 He destroyed seven nations of people who lived in the land of Canaan. God gave their land to his own people so that they could live there. 
Acts13:20 All of these things happened during about 450 years. After this, God gave to his people leaders who were called judges. They ruled Israel until the time when God's prophet Samuel was alive." 
Acts13:21 Then the people of Israel asked Samuel to choose a king for them. So God gave Saul to them as their king. Saul was the son of Kish and he was from the tribe of Benjamin. He ruled Israel for 40 years. 
Acts13:22 Then God removed Saul as king. He caused David to be their king instead. God said this about David: “I have watched David, the son of Jesse. He does things that make me happy. I know that he will do everything that I want.”" 
Acts13:23 God promised to send to the people of Israel someone who would save us. Jesus is the man that God sent to save us. He is a descendant of King David. 
Acts13:24 Before Jesus began his work in this world, John spoke a message to all the people of Israel. He told people to stop doing wrong things and to turn to God. Then he would baptize them." 
Acts13:24 Before Jesus began his work in this world, John spoke a message to all the people of Israel. He told people to stop doing wrong things and to turn to God. Then he would baptize them." 
Acts13:25 When John had almost finished his work, he said to the people, “Perhaps you think that I am the special man that God will send. I am not that man. But listen! That man will come soon. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him.” ’" 
Acts13:25 When John had almost finished his work, he said to the people, “Perhaps you think that I am the special man that God will send. I am not that man. But listen! That man will come soon. I am not good enough even to undo his shoes for him.” ’" 
Acts13:26 Paul then said, ‘I speak to all you people here. Some of you, like us, have Abraham as your ancestor. Some of you are Gentiles who now worship our God. God has sent this message to all of us. It tells us how he will save us." 
Acts13:27 The people who were living in Jerusalem, and their leaders, did not understand about Jesus. They did not know that he was God's special man. Every Jewish day of rest, someone reads aloud the messages of God's prophets. But the people in Jerusalem did not understand. Instead, they said that Jesus had done bad things. They said that he should die. In that way, they caused the message of the prophets to become true." 
Acts13:28 The Jewish leaders could not find any reason to kill Jesus for what he had done. But they continued to say to Pilate, “Your soldiers must kill him.”" 
Acts13:29 When the soldiers did that, it happened just like the prophets had written about him long ago. After that, some of Jesus' disciples took him down from the cross where he had died. They took his body and they buried it." 
Acts13:30 But after Jesus died, God caused him to become alive again." 
Acts13:31 For many days after this, Jesus appeared to his disciples. The people who had earlier travelled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem saw him. They are now telling the people of Israel all about it." 
Acts13:32 So we have come here to tell you this good news. God promised our ancestors that he would do these great things for his people. 
Acts13:33 Now he has done these things for us who are alive today. He has raised up Jesus to live again. We can read about this in the second psalm. God says, “You are my Son. Today, I have become your Father.”" 
Acts13:34 God caused Jesus to live again so that nothing would destroy his body. He will not die again. This is what God said to our ancestors: “I will surely help you with good things, as I promised to King David.”" 
Acts13:35 God also says this in another psalm: “Your servant who loves you will not remain dead. You will not let anything destroy the body of your Holy One.” 
Acts13:36 While David was alive, he served God as God wanted him to do. Then he died and men buried him next to his ancestors. So worms destroyed David's body." 
Acts13:37 But as for Jesus, God caused him to become alive again. He did not die again and nothing destroyed his body." 
Acts13:38 My friends, I want all of you to know this. God forgives us for the bad things that we have done. He does this because of what Jesus did. That is my message to you." 
Acts13:39 God can cause anyone to become right with him. If you believe in Jesus, God will make you free from your sins. God's Law that he gave to Moses cannot do this for you. That Law cannot make you free, even if you obey all of it." 
Acts13:40 Be careful then! Remember what God's prophets spoke about long ago. Do not let that happen to you. This is what one of them wrote: 
Acts13:41 “Listen to me, you people who laugh at God! You will be surprised at the great things that I do. And then you will die. I am working now, while you are still alive. But still you will not believe what is true. Even if someone explains everything to you, you will never believe.” ’" 
Acts13:42 After Paul spoke this message, he and Barnabas were leaving the meeting place. The people there said to them, ‘Please return on our next day of rest. Then you can tell us more about what you have already told us.’" 
Acts13:43 When the meeting finished, many people followed Paul and Barnabas. Some of them were Jews. Others were Gentiles who now worshipped God. Paul and Barnabas said to them, ‘God has been very kind to you. You should continue to trust him.’" 
Acts13:44 On the next Jewish day of rest, almost everyone in the town came together to hear the Lord God's message." 
Acts13:45 But when some Jews saw the crowds of people, they became angry. They were very jealous because the people listened to Paul and Barnabas. They said that Paul was teaching wrong things. They also said bad things against him." 
Acts13:46 But Paul and Barnabas were not afraid of them. They said to them, ‘It was right that we first tell you who are Jews the message from God. But now you say that God's message is not true. You have shown that you do not deserve true life with God. So we will leave you now. We will go and tell this message to the Gentiles." 
Acts13:47 The Lord God has also told us to do this. He said: “I have chosen you to be like a light to the Gentiles. You must go to people everywhere in the world. You must tell them how God wants to save them.” ’ 
Acts13:48 When the Gentiles there heard this, they were very happy. They thanked God for the message about the Lord Jesus. Many people believed in Jesus. They were the people that God had chosen to have true life with him." 
Acts13:49 Many people in that part of the country heard the message about the Lord Jesus. 
Acts13:50 But the Jewish leaders spoke to the important men in the city. They also spoke to some rich women who worshipped God. The Jewish leaders told them bad things about Paul and Barnabas. So these important people started to speak against Paul and Barnabas. They caused Paul and Barnabas to leave that region. 
Acts13:51 So Paul and Barnabas cleaned the dirt of that place off their feet. This showed that the people in that town had done a bad thing. Paul and Barnabas then travelled to a town called Iconium. 
Acts13:52 The believers in Antioch continued to be very happy. The Holy Spirit completely filled them. 
Acts14:1 When Paul and Barnabas arrived in Iconium, they did the same as they had done before. They went to the Jewish meeting place and they spoke God's message there. They spoke very clearly, so that many Jews and Gentiles believed in Jesus." 
Acts14:2 But some of the Jews refused to believe God's message. They told the Gentiles that they too should not believe it. The Jews put bad thoughts into the minds of the Gentiles so that they became angry against the believers. 
Acts14:3 So Paul and Barnabas stayed in Iconium for a long time. They were not afraid to tell people the message about the Lord Jesus. The Lord gave them power to do miracles. These showed the people that God was with Paul and Barnabas and that their message was true. They taught that God saves people because he is very kind. 
Acts14:4 The people in the city did not agree with each other. Some of them believed the message from the apostles, Paul and Barnabas. But some people agreed with the Jews who did not believe their message." 
Acts14:5 Then some of the Jews and the Gentiles met with their leaders. They decided to do bad things to Paul and Barnabas. They wanted to throw stones at them and kill them. 
Acts14:6 Paul and Barnabas heard that these people wanted to hurt them. So they left Iconium quickly and they went to Lystra and Derbe, and other places near there. These cities were in the region called Lycaonia." 
Acts14:7 In all these places, they continued to tell people the good news about Jesus." 
Acts14:8 There was a man who lived in Lystra. His feet had been weak since he was born. So he had never been able to walk. 
Acts14:9 While Paul was speaking God's message, this man listened to him. Paul looked at him carefully. He could see that the man believed in Jesus. The man believed that God could make him well." 
Acts14:10 So Paul said to him loudly, ‘Stand up on your feet!’ Immediately the man jumped up and he began to walk about." 
Acts14:11 The crowd saw what Paul had done. They began to shout in their own language that the people of Lycaonia spoke. They said, ‘The gods have become like men and they have come down from the sky to us.’" 
Acts14:12 They called Barnabas ‘Zeus’. They called Paul ‘Hermes’, because he was the one who spoke the message to the people." 
Acts14:13 The temple of Zeus was very near to the town. The priest who worked there brought bulls and flowers to the town gate. Many people had come together in that place. The priest and the crowd wanted to kill the animals as sacrifices to Paul and Barnabas. 
Acts14:14 Paul and Barnabas heard what the people wanted to do. So they tore their own clothes to show that they were very upset. They ran into the middle of the crowd," 
Acts14:15 and they shouted, ‘Stop! You people should not do this. We are only men like you. We are not gods. We came here to tell you some good news about the great God. You must stop worshipping these gods who are really nothing. Instead worship the God who lives. He made the sky, the earth and the sea. He also made everything that is in them." 
Acts14:16 In past times, God let people everywhere do what they wanted to do." 
Acts14:17 But God has showed everybody very clearly what he is like. He has showed you that he is kind. He causes the rain to fall from the sky. He causes the plants to give you food at the right time each year. He gives you plenty of food to eat. In these ways he makes you very happy.’ 
Acts14:18 Even when Paul had said all this, the people still wanted to offer sacrifices to him and Barnabas. Finally Paul and Barnabas were able to stop them." 
Acts14:19 Then some Jews arrived there in Lystra. They had travelled from Antioch and from Iconium. They talked to the people, so that they turned against Paul. Then these Jews threw stones at Paul to kill him. They pulled his body to outside the town. They thought that he was dead." 
Acts14:20 But some believers came out from the town and they stood around Paul. Then Paul stood up! He went back with them into the town. The next day, Paul and Barnabas left Lystra and they went to Derbe." 
Acts14:21 While they were there, they told people the good news about Jesus. Many people in Derbe became believers. After that, Paul and Barnabas returned to Lystra. From there they went back to Iconium. Then they returned to Antioch in the region of Pisidia." 
Acts14:22 In all these towns, they taught the believers to be strong. They said to them, ‘Continue to trust in the Lord Jesus! All believers will have trouble at different times. That will continue to happen in our lives. But one day we will go into the kingdom of God where he rules.’" 
Acts14:23 Paul and Barnabas chose leaders for each group of believers in these places. They fasted and they prayed to God for some time about this. They asked the Lord Jesus to help these leaders who trusted in him. 
Acts14:24 Then Paul and Barnabas travelled through Pisidia. They arrived in Pamphylia. 
Acts14:25 They spoke God's message to the people in Perga. Then they went down to the coast, to the town of Attalia." 
Acts14:26 From there they went in a ship back to Antioch. That was the place where the believers had chosen them to do God's work. They had asked God to help Paul and Barnabas in this work. Now Paul and Barnabas had finished this work and they had returned home. 
Acts14:27 When they arrived, they sent a message to the group of believers in Antioch. When all the believers had come together, Paul and Barnabas told them about their journey. They told the believers about everything that God had helped them to do. They said, ‘God has made it possible now for Gentiles to believe in Jesus.’" 
Acts14:28 Paul and Barnabas stayed there with the believers in Antioch for a long time. 
Acts15:1 Some men arrived in Antioch from Judea. They began to teach the believers there who were not Jews. They said to them, ‘God cannot save you unless someone circumcises you. This is in the Law that God gave to Moses.’" 
Acts15:1 Some men arrived in Antioch from Judea. They began to teach the believers there who were not Jews. They said to them, ‘God cannot save you unless someone circumcises you. This is in the Law that God gave to Moses.’" 
Acts15:2 Paul and Barnabas did not agree with these men. They argued strongly against them. As a result, the believers in Antioch decided what to do. They chose Paul, Barnabas and some of the other believers to go to Jerusalem. They should go to meet with the apostles and the other leaders of the believers. The leaders should decide who was right in this quarrel." 
Acts15:3 The group of believers at Antioch sent Paul, Barnabas and the other men on their way. They travelled through Phoenicia and Samaria. They spoke to the believers in those places. They told them, ‘ Gentiles are also turning to God and they are believing in Jesus.’ The believers were all very happy to hear this news." 
Acts15:4 When Paul, Barnabas and the other men arrived in Jerusalem, they met with the believers there. The apostles, the other leaders and the whole group of believers were happy to see them. Paul and Barnabas told them about everything that God had helped them to do." 
Acts15:5 Some Jewish believers were there who also belonged to the Pharisees' group. They stood up and they said, ‘We must circumcise Gentiles when they become believers. We must tell them to obey all the Law that God gave to Moses.’" 
Acts15:6 So the apostles and the other leaders of the believers met to talk about this problem. 
Acts15:7 After they had all talked about this problem for a long time, Peter stood up to speak. He said, ‘My friends, you know that, a long time ago, God chose me from among all you leaders. He wanted me to teach Gentiles the good news about Jesus. God wanted them to hear his message and to believe in Jesus." 
Acts15:8 God knows what people truly believe. He showed clearly that he accepts Gentile believers as his people. He gave his Holy Spirit to them in the same way that he did for us. 
Acts15:9 He made no difference between them and us. When they believed in Jesus, he saved them. He made them clean inside." 
Acts15:10 So do not say that God has done a wrong thing. God has shown us that he accepts Gentiles when they believe in Jesus. If you make the Gentile believers obey the Law of Moses, that is like a heavy weight on their necks. Even we Jews and our ancestors could not carry that heavy weight." 
Acts15:11 God saves us who are Jews when we believe in Jesus. It is not because we obey the Law of Moses. It is because the Lord Jesus is kind to us. God saves Gentiles in the same way, when they believe in Jesus.’" 
Acts15:12 After Peter said this everybody in the group was quiet. Then Barnabas and Paul spoke to them. They said, ‘God helped us to do great miracles among the Gentiles. These showed that God was with us.’" 
Acts15:13 When they had finished their report, James spoke to the group. He said, ‘Listen to me, my friends." 
Acts15:13 When they had finished their report, James spoke to the group. He said, ‘Listen to me, my friends." 
Acts15:14 Simon Peter has just described to us what happened first with the Gentile believers. He explained how God chose some of them to belong to him as his own people. 
Acts15:15 The message of God's prophets agrees completely with this. They wrote long ago: 
Acts15:16 The Lord God said, “Later I will return. At that time I will make David's kingdom strong again. It has become like a house that has fallen down, but I will build it again so that it is strong." 
Acts15:17 Then many other people will want to know me, the Lord God. Those are the Gentiles that I have chosen to belong to me. I, the Lord God, say this, and I will make these things happen." 
Acts15:18 Long ago I caused people to know all these things.” ’ 
Acts15:19 James then said, ‘So this is what I have decided about this problem. Many Gentiles are now turning to God as believers. We should not make it difficult for them." 
Acts15:19 James then said, ‘So this is what I have decided about this problem. Many Gentiles are now turning to God as believers. We should not make it difficult for them." 
Acts15:20 Instead of that, we should write a letter to tell them how to live as believers. We should say to them, “Do not eat any food which people have given to their idols. That food has become unclean. Do not have sex with anyone that you are not married to. If people have strangled an animal to kill it, do not eat its meat. Do not eat anything that still has blood in it.”" 
Acts15:21 These rules are important, because people have known the Law of Moses for a very long time. On every Jewish day of rest, someone teaches us about the Law in our Jewish meeting places in every city.’" 
Acts15:22 The whole group of believers agreed with what James said. So the apostles and the other leaders decided to choose some men from among the group of believers. These men would go to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They chose Silas and Judas, who was also called Barsabbas. The believers all respected these men as leaders." 
Acts15:22 The whole group of believers agreed with what James said. So the apostles and the other leaders decided to choose some men from among the group of believers. These men would go to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They chose Silas and Judas, who was also called Barsabbas. The believers all respected these men as leaders." 
Acts15:23 This is the letter that they sent with those men: ‘We, the apostles and leaders of the believers here say “hello” to you, our friends who also believe in Jesus. We say “hello” to all of you Gentile believers who live in Antioch, Syria and Cilicia." 
Acts15:24 We have heard that some men from our group have confused your thoughts. These men came to you and they taught you without our authority. The things that they said were not right and they have upset you. 
Acts15:25 So now we have all met together. We have agreed what to do about this problem. We have chosen some men to bring this message to you. They will travel with our good friends, Barnabas and Paul." 
Acts15:26 These two men have worked as servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of that, they have almost lost their lives." 
Acts15:27 So we are also sending Judas and Silas to you. They will tell you the same things that we have written in this letter. 
Acts15:28 The Holy Spirit has shown us what we should do. We also think that this is the right thing to do. We do not want to put a heavy weight on you. So these are the only rules that we want you to obey: 
Acts15:29 Do not eat any food that people have given to their idols. Do not eat anything that still has blood in it. If people have strangled an animal to kill it, do not eat its meat. Do not have sex with anyone that you are not married to. If you obey these rules, you will do well. Goodbye.’" 
Acts15:30 So the believers in Jerusalem sent these four men to go to Antioch. When they arrived there, they told the group of believers to meet together. When they all met, Silas and Judas gave them the letter." 
Acts15:31 When the believers in Antioch read the letter, they were very happy. They said, ‘This message will help us very much.’" 
Acts15:32 Judas and Silas were both prophets. They spoke a message from God to the believers there. They spoke for a long time to help the believers and to make them strong. 
Acts15:33 Judas and Silas remained in Antioch for some time. Then the group of believers sent them back to Jerusalem. The believers prayed that God would help them and take care of them. 
Acts15:34 [But Silas decided to stay there.] 
Acts15:35 Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch for a longer time. Together with many other believers, they taught the people, and they spoke the message about the Lord Jesus." 
Acts15:36 After some time, Paul said to Barnabas, ‘We should go back to the towns where we already spoke the message about the Lord Jesus. Then we can visit the believers in all those places. We can see if they are doing well.’" 
Acts15:37 Barnabas agreed and he wanted to take John Mark with them. 
Acts15:37 Barnabas agreed and he wanted to take John Mark with them. 
Acts15:37 Barnabas agreed and he wanted to take John Mark with them. 
Acts15:38 But Paul did not think that this was right. He said to Barnabas, ‘John Mark did not remain with us until we had finished our work. He left us when we were in Pamphylia.’" 
Acts15:38 But Paul did not think that this was right. He said to Barnabas, ‘John Mark did not remain with us until we had finished our work. He left us when we were in Pamphylia.’" 
Acts15:38 But Paul did not think that this was right. He said to Barnabas, ‘John Mark did not remain with us until we had finished our work. He left us when we were in Pamphylia.’" 
Acts15:39 Paul and Barnabas argued strongly about this. They could not agree, so they went in different directions. Barnabas took John Mark with him and they sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts15:39 Paul and Barnabas argued strongly about this. They could not agree, so they went in different directions. Barnabas took John Mark with him and they sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts15:39 Paul and Barnabas argued strongly about this. They could not agree, so they went in different directions. Barnabas took John Mark with him and they sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts15:40 Paul chose Silas to go with him. The believers in Antioch asked the Lord God to take care of Paul and Silas. 
Acts15:41 They travelled through Syria and Cilicia. Paul taught the believers in those regions. He helped them to be strong and to trust Jesus. 
Acts16:1 Paul travelled to Derbe and then he arrived in Lystra. A man called Timothy lived in Lystra. He was a believer. His mother was a Jew who had become a believer in Jesus. But Timothy's father was a Gentile who came from Greece. 
Acts16:2 All the believers in Lystra and Iconium said good things about Timothy. 
Acts16:3 Paul wanted Timothy to travel with him to different places. All the Jews in that region knew that Timothy's father was a Gentile. So Paul circumcised Timothy, so that the Jews would accept him." 
Acts16:4 Paul, Silas and Timothy travelled through many towns. In each place, they told the believers the things that the apostles and the other leaders in Jerusalem had decided. They told the believers to obey those rules." 
Acts16:5 In this way, the groups of believers in those towns became stronger. They trusted Jesus more. More and more people joined the groups of believers every day." 
Acts16:6 Paul and his friends wanted to go to the region of Asia to speak God's message. But the Holy Spirit stopped them from doing this. So they travelled through the regions of Phrygia and Galatia. 
Acts16:7 Then they arrived at the edge of the region of Mysia. They wanted to go from there into the region of Bithynia. But the Holy Spirit of Jesus stopped them from going there too. 
Acts16:8 So they went quickly through Mysia and they arrived at the city of Troas, on the coast." 
Acts16:9 During that night, Paul had a vision. In the vision, he saw a man who lived in the region called Macedonia. The man stood there and he said to Paul, ‘Please, please come across the sea to Macedonia and help us.’" 
Acts16:10 After Paul's vision, we immediately prepared ourselves for the journey to Macedonia. We decided that God was telling us to go there. He wanted us to tell the people there the good news about Jesus." 
Acts16:11 We got in a ship at Troas and we sailed across the sea. We went across to an island called Samothrace. The next day, we continued our journey to a port called Neapolis." 
Acts16:12 We then travelled across the land to Philippi, the most important city in the region of Macedonia. The Romans ruled Philippi and many Roman people lived there. We stayed there for a few days." 
Acts16:12 We then travelled across the land to Philippi, the most important city in the region of Macedonia. The Romans ruled Philippi and many Roman people lived there. We stayed there for a few days." 
Acts16:13 On the Jewish day of rest, we went out of the city gate. We went down to the edge of the river. We thought that the Jews might have a place there where they prayed together. We found a group of women who were meeting there. So we sat down and we talked to them." 
Acts16:14 One of the women who listened to us was called Lydia. She was from the city of Thyatira. She bought and sold expensive purple cloth. She was a Gentile woman who now worshipped God. The Lord helped her to understand Paul's message. So she believed the things that he said. 
Acts16:15 Then Paul and Silas baptized Lydia and the other people who lived in her house. After this, Lydia asked us to go to her house. She said to us, ‘If you think that I really believe in the Lord Jesus, then please stay in my house.’ We agreed to go and to stay there." 
Acts16:16 One day, we were going to the place where people prayed to God. On the way there, we met a slave girl. A bad spirit was living inside her. This spirit told her what would happen soon. People gave her masters a lot of money when she told them about these future things." 
Acts16:17 She followed Paul and all of us. She was shouting, ‘These men are servants of the powerful God who is over all! They are telling you how God can save you!’" 
Acts16:18 The slave girl continued to do this for many days. After some time, Paul became angry. So he turned round and he said to the bad spirit, ‘I am using the authority of Jesus Christ! I command you to leave this woman!’ When Paul said that, the spirit left her immediately." 
Acts16:19 Her masters now knew that the girl could not get money for them any more. So they took hold of Paul and Silas and they pulled them to the market place of the city. They took them to stand in front of the leaders of the city. 
Acts16:20 They asked the important officers to judge them. They said, ‘These men are Jews. They are causing much trouble in our city." 
Acts16:21 They are teaching people to obey strange ideas. We are Roman people. We cannot agree with these laws. They are not right for us to do.’ 
Acts16:22 A lot of people quickly came together there. They started to attack Paul and Silas. So the important officers said to their soldiers, ‘Tear the clothes off Paul and Silas. Then hit them with sticks!’" 
Acts16:23 The soldiers hit Paul and Silas many times. Then they took hold of them and they pushed them into the prison. The officers said to the prison guard, ‘Lock the prison door carefully so that these men cannot get free.’" 
Acts16:24 The prison guard did what he had been told to do. He put Paul and Silas in a room in the middle of the prison. He put their feet between big heavy pieces of wood so that they could not move their legs. 
Acts16:25 At midnight, Paul and Silas were praying. They were also singing songs to praise God. The other people in the prison were listening to them." 
Acts16:26 The ground under the prison suddenly shook strongly. Immediately, all the prison doors opened. The chains that held the people in the prison all fell off." 
Acts16:27 The prison guard woke up. He saw that the prison doors were open. He thought that all the people in the prison had become free. He decided that he should kill himself. So he pulled out his sword. 
Acts16:28 Paul shouted very loudly to him, ‘Do not hurt yourself! We are all still in here!’" 
Acts16:29 The guard said, ‘Bring me some lights.’ Then he ran to the prison room where Paul and Silas were. He was very frightened. He went down on his knees in front of them." 
Acts16:30 Then he led Paul and Silas out of the prison. He said to them, ‘Masters, what must I do so that God will save me? Tell me!’" 
Acts16:31 Paul and Silas said to him, ‘Believe in the Lord Jesus and then God will save you. He will save you and the people who live in your house, if they believe too.’" 
Acts16:32 Then Paul and Silas went to the guard's house. They spoke God's message about the Lord Jesus to him and to all the people in his house. 
Acts16:33 In the middle of the night, the man took care of them. He washed their bodies where the soldiers had hurt them. Immediately after this, Paul and Silas baptized the man and his whole family." 
Acts16:34 The man gave them some food to eat in his house. The guard and all his family were very happy because now they believed in God. 
Acts16:35 The next morning, the Roman officers sent their police to the prison with a message for the guard. They told him, ‘Let those men go free.’" 
Acts16:36 The guard went to Paul and he told him, ‘The city officers have sent a message to me. They said, “Let Paul and Silas go free.” So now you can leave the prison. Nobody will hurt you any more.’" 
Acts16:37 But Paul spoke to the police who had brought the message. He said, ‘The city officers did not find that we had done anything wrong. But they commanded their soldiers to hit us with sticks in front of everybody. We are citizens of Rome but they still did this to us. They even put us into prison. Now they want us to leave the prison and go away. They want to send us away secretly. We will not agree! The Roman officers must come here to the prison themselves. Then they must lead us out for everyone to see.’" 
Acts16:38 The police returned to the city officers. They told them what Paul had said. The officers now realized that Paul and Silas were citizens of Rome. This made them very afraid. 
Acts16:39 So they went to see Paul and Silas in the prison. They told Paul and Silas that they were very sorry. Then they led Paul and Silas out of the prison. They asked them to leave the city. 
Acts16:40 After Paul and Silas left the prison, they went to Lydia's house. There they met the other believers. They spoke to the believers to make them strong. Then Paul and Silas left Philippi." 
Acts17:1 Paul and his friends continued their journey. They went through the towns called Amphipolis and Apollonia. Then they arrived in the city of Thessalonica. There was a Jewish meeting place there. 
Acts17:2 Paul went to the meeting place, as he usually did on a Jewish day of rest. On three rest days, he spoke God's message to the people there. He read from the Bible and he explained what it meant." 
Acts17:3 He told the people what was true about God's Messiah. He used the Bible to show them clearly that the Messiah had to suffer and die. He also showed them that the Messiah had to become alive again. Paul said to them, ‘I have been telling you about Jesus. He is the Messiah that God has sent to us.’" 
Acts17:4 Some of the Jews believed Paul's message. They joined the group with Paul and Silas. A large number of Greek people who now worshipped God also joined this group. Many important women in the city also believed and they joined the group. 
Acts17:5 Some other Jews in the city were jealous of Paul and Silas, because people believed their message. So they went to the city's market place and they found some bad men there. These men often caused trouble in the city. Now the Jews brought these men to come together with them in an angry crowd. This crowd made a lot of noise and trouble in the streets of the city. They went to Jason's house and they broke down his door. They wanted to find Paul and Silas. They wanted to bring them out of the house to the crowd." 
Acts17:6 But they did not find Paul and Silas there. So they took hold of Jason and some other believers. They pulled them out of the house. They made them go and stand in front of the important officers of the city. They shouted, ‘These men have caused much trouble everywhere. Now they have come to our city." 
Acts17:7 Jason has let them stay in his house. They speak against the laws that Caesar has given to us. They say that there is another king. This other king is called Jesus.’ 
Acts17:8 The whole crowd of people and the city officers heard this report about Paul and Silas. They became very angry and upset. 
Acts17:9 The officers decided how much money Jason and the other believers should pay to go free. When they received it, they allowed them to go." 
Acts17:10 As soon as it became dark, the believers in Thessalonica sent Paul and Silas away to Berea. When they arrived in that town, they went to the Jewish meeting place." 
Acts17:11 The Jewish people in Berea were better than the people in Thessalonica. They were happy to listen carefully to Paul. Every day they also studied the Bible. They wanted to know if Paul's message was true. 
Acts17:12 Many of the Jewish people in Berea believed the good news about Jesus. Many Greek men and some important Greek women also believed in Jesus. 
Acts17:13 But the Jews in Thessalonica heard news about what Paul was doing in Berea. They heard that he was telling people God's message about Jesus. So some of them went to Berea. They said bad things against Paul to the people there. As a result, a large crowd became angry with Paul." 
Acts17:14 Immediately, the believers in Berea sent Paul away to go to the coast. But Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea." 
Acts17:15 When Paul left Berea, some men went with him. They went with him as far as the city of Athens. Before these men returned to Berea, Paul gave them a message for Silas and Timothy. He said, ‘Please come quickly and meet me here in Athens.’" 
Acts17:16 While Paul was waiting in Athens for Silas and Timothy, he walked around. He saw that the people in the city had many idols. When Paul saw this, he became very upset." 
Acts17:17 So he went to the Jewish meeting place and he talked with the Jews. He also talked there with those Gentiles who now worshipped God. Every day he also went to the market place in the city and he talked with the people there. 
Acts17:18 There were some teachers there who liked to talk about the things that people should believe. Some of them were called Epicureans and some were called Stoics. After they talked to Paul, some of them said to each other, ‘Who is this silly man? He knows nothing and he talks too much!’ But some of these teachers said, ‘We think that he is talking about strange gods.’ They said this because Paul was telling people the good news about Jesus. He was also talking about the time when God will cause dead people to live again." 
Acts17:19 So these men asked Paul to go with them to Areopagus hill. They wanted him to speak to the city's important officers who met there. 
Acts17:20 The officers said, ‘These strange ideas that you are teaching surprise us. Please explain to us what these ideas mean.’" 
Acts17:21 (The people of Athens liked to talk about new ideas. So did the foreign people who lived there. They all wanted to hear new things and to talk about them. They seemed to do this all the time.) 
Acts17:22 So Paul stood up in front of the important officers of the city. He said to them, ‘People of Athens. I see that you have many gods." 
Acts17:23 I have walked in the streets of your city. I see that you have built many special places where you worship your gods. I saw one altar with a notice on it. The notice said, “To the god that we do not know.” This shows that you want to worship a god that you do not know. Now I will tell you clearly about who this God is." 
Acts17:24 The true God made the earth and everything that is in it. He rules everything in the earth and in heaven. He does not live in any temple that people have made for him. 
Acts17:25 People make things to give to God. But God does not need anything like that. It is God himself who causes everyone to live. He gives them everything that they need. 
Acts17:26 God first made one man. From that one man he made all the different groups of people. He caused them to live in different places all over the world. He decided where each group of people should live. He also decided how long they should live in each place. 
Acts17:27 God did all this so that people would want to know him. They would look carefully for him and perhaps they would find him. Really, God is near to each of us." 
Acts17:28 Someone said this: “Because God gives us life, we are alive. Because of him, we can move about. Because of him we can be who we are.” One of your writers has also said, “We too are God's children.”" 
Acts17:29 So, because we are God's children, we should not think that he is a thing like an idol. Clever people use gold or silver or stone to make images of gods. But God is not like these things that people choose to make for themselves." 
Acts17:30 In past times people did not know the true things about God. Because of this, God did not punish them. But now God tells people everywhere, “Stop doing bad things and turn to me!”" 
Acts17:31 God has already chosen one special day. On that day he will judge everyone in the world in a completely right way. He has chosen a man who will do this for him. He has shown clearly to everyone who that man is. He showed it like this: People killed that man. But God caused him to live again.’ 
Acts17:32 Paul had said, ‘God caused that man to live again.’ When the people heard this, some of them laughed at him. But other people said to Paul, ‘We want you to tell us more about this on another day.’" 
Acts17:33 So then Paul left the meeting of the important officers of the city. 
Acts17:34 Some of the people who had heard Paul's message joined his group. They believed the good news about Jesus. One of these believers was a man called Dionysius. He belonged to the group of important officers. A woman called Damaris also became a believer. Several other people also believed Paul's message about Jesus. 
Acts18:1 After Paul had spoken to the important officers of Athens, he left the city. He went from there to the city of Corinth." 
Acts18:2 In Corinth, he met a man called Aquila. Aquila was a Jew. He had been born in the region of Pontus. At that time, Caesar Claudius had said that all Jews must leave Rome. So Aquila had left Italy and he had just arrived in Corinth with his wife Priscilla. Paul went to visit them." 
Acts18:3 They knew how to make tents which they could sell to people. Paul also made tents, so he stayed with them and he worked with them." 
Acts18:4 Every Jewish day of rest, Paul taught both Jews and Greek people in the Jewish meeting place. He wanted them all to believe the good news about Jesus." 
Acts18:5 Then Silas and Timothy arrived there from the country called Macedonia. After that, the only work that Paul did was to teach people God's message. He told the Jews clearly that Jesus is God's Messiah." 
Acts18:6 The Jews did not agree with Paul and they insulted him. So he shook the dirt off his clothes at them. He said to them, ‘If God punishes you, then you have caused it to happen. It will not be because of me. Now I will go to the Gentiles and I will teach them God's message.’" 
Acts18:7 So Paul did not speak in the Jewish meeting place any more. Instead, he went to the house of Titius Justus, which was next to the meeting place. Justus was a Gentile who now worshipped God." 
Acts18:8 A man called Crispus was the leader of the Jewish meeting place there. He, and everyone else who lived in his house, believed in the Lord Jesus. Many other people in Corinth heard Paul's message and they believed in Jesus. When they became believers, someone baptized them." 
Acts18:9 But one night, the Lord appeared to Paul in a vision. He said, ‘Do not be afraid of those people who are against you. Continue to speak my message to the people here. Do not stop speaking to them." 
Acts18:10 I am here with you. Nobody will hurt you. There are many people in this city who will believe in me.’ 
Acts18:11 So Paul stayed in Corinth for 18 months and he taught the people God's message about Jesus. 
Acts18:12 Gallio then became the Roman ruler of the region called Achaia. At this time the Jewish leaders in Corinth decided together to speak against Paul. So they took hold of him and they brought him to Gallio. They wanted Gallio to judge Paul. 
Acts18:13 The Jewish leaders said to Gallio, ‘This man is teaching people to worship God in a wrong way. The things that he teaches are against our Jewish law.’" 
Acts18:14 Paul was ready to speak, but Gallio spoke first to the Jews. He said, ‘If this man had done a very bad thing, then I would judge him. It would be right for me to listen to you." 
Acts18:15 But you are arguing about words and names and your own Jewish law. So you yourselves must decide what to do about it. I will not be a judge to decide about these things.’ 
Acts18:16 Gallio told his soldiers to take the Jewish leaders away. 
Acts18:17 Then the whole crowd of people took hold of a man called Sosthenes. He was the leader of the Jewish meeting place there. The crowd hit him with sticks in front of Gallio. But Gallio did nothing to stop them. He did not think it was important. 
Acts18:18 Paul remained in Corinth with the believers for many days. Then he left them. Priscilla and Aquila also went with him. They went to the port called Cenchrea. They got on a ship there to sail to Syria. Before they left, someone cut off all the hair on Paul's head. This showed that he had made a promise to God." 
Acts18:19 They all arrived in the city of Ephesus. Paul left Priscilla and Aquila, and he went into the Jewish meeting room. There he talked about God's message with the Jews." 
Acts18:20 Some of them asked Paul to remain in Ephesus with them for a longer time. But he did not agree to stay. 
Acts18:21 Before he left, he said to them, ‘If God wants me to come back, I will return to you.’ Then Paul got in a ship and he sailed from Ephesus to Caesarea." 
Acts18:22 After Paul arrived in Caesarea, he went to Jerusalem. He said, ‘hello’ to the group of believers there. Then he travelled to Antioch in Syria." 
Acts18:23 He stayed in Antioch for some time. Then he left there and he travelled through the regions called Galatia and Phrygia. He spoke to all the believers in these places. He helped them to trust God and to be strong. 
Acts18:24 A certain Jewish man called Apollos arrived in Ephesus. He had been born in Alexandria, and he could teach people very well. He knew a lot about God's message in the Bible." 
Acts18:25 Someone had taught him the good news about the Lord Jesus. He liked to speak a lot to people about Jesus. The things that he taught were true. But he only knew part of God's message. He only knew the things that John taught about baptism. 
Acts18:25 Someone had taught him the good news about the Lord Jesus. He liked to speak a lot to people about Jesus. The things that he taught were true. But he only knew part of God's message. He only knew the things that John taught about baptism. 
Acts18:26 Apollos went to the Jewish meeting place and he taught the people there. He was not afraid to speak God's message to them. Priscilla and Aquila heard what Apollos was teaching the people. So they said to him, ‘Please come with us to our home.’ Then they explained to Apollos the whole of God's message about Jesus. Then he could understand better." 
Acts18:27 Later, Apollos decided to go to the region called Achaia. The believers in Ephesus agreed that he should do that. They wrote a letter for him to give to the believers in Achaia. They wrote, ‘When Apollos arrives, please accept him.’ God had been very kind to the believers in Achaia, so that they believed in Jesus. When Apollos came to them, he helped them very much." 
Acts18:28 Some of the Jews there spoke against Apollos's message. But he argued strongly against them so that everyone could hear. He explained to them what God had said in the Bible. He showed them clearly that Jesus is God's Messiah. 
Acts19:1 While Apollos was in Corinth, Paul travelled through the region of Asia. He arrived in Ephesus and he found some believers there." 
Acts19:2 Paul asked them, ‘When you believed the message about Jesus, did you receive God's Holy Spirit?’ The believers answered, ‘We did not even know that there is a Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts19:3 So Paul asked them, ‘When someone baptized you, what kind of baptism was that?’ They answered, ‘We received the baptism that John spoke about.’" 
Acts19:3 So Paul asked them, ‘When someone baptized you, what kind of baptism was that?’ They answered, ‘We received the baptism that John spoke about.’" 
Acts19:4 Then Paul said, ‘John baptized people who knew that they had done wrong things. They wanted to stop doing these things. But John also said to the people, “You must believe in the man who will come soon.” This person is Jesus.’" 
Acts19:4 Then Paul said, ‘John baptized people who knew that they had done wrong things. They wanted to stop doing these things. But John also said to the people, “You must believe in the man who will come soon.” This person is Jesus.’" 
Acts19:5 When the believers in Ephesus understood this, Paul baptized them. This showed that they now believed in the Lord Jesus." 
Acts19:6 Then Paul put his hands on each believer's head. When he did this, the Holy Spirit came down on them. They spoke in different languages and they spoke messages from God." 
Acts19:7 There were about 12 men there. 
Acts19:8 For three months, Paul went to the Jewish meeting place in Ephesus on their day of rest. He was not afraid to speak to the people there. He talked strongly with them about the kingdom of God." 
Acts19:9 But some of them did not accept what Paul said. They refused to believe the message about Jesus. Some of them said bad things against the Way of the Lord Jesus and many people in the group heard this. So Paul stopped speaking to people in that meeting place. He left there and he took with him the other believers. Every day he talked with people in another place. It was a large room, where a man called Tyrannus usually taught people." 
Acts19:10 Paul taught the people there for two years. During that time, all the people who lived in Asia region heard the message about the Lord Jesus. This included Jews and Gentiles." 
Acts19:11 God was helping Paul to do special miracles. 
Acts19:12 Because of this, people were taking pieces of cloth and clothes that Paul gave to them. Paul had used these things, and people took them to those who were ill. After they touched these cloths, the sick people would become well again. Bad spirits also left them." 
Acts19:13 There were some Jewish men who travelled about to different places. They caused bad spirits to leave people. Some of them wanted to use the name of the Lord Jesus when they did this. These Jews said to the bad spirits, ‘We tell you to come out of these people. We say this with the authority of Jesus, the man that Paul teaches people about.’" 
Acts19:14 Sceva was a leader of the Jewish priests in that place. He had seven sons who were telling bad spirits to come out of people. They used the name of Jesus when they did this. 
Acts19:15 But one day the bad spirit in a man said to them, ‘I know who Jesus is. I also know about Paul. But I do not know who you are.’" 
Acts19:16 The man who had the bad spirit in him then jumped up. He fought with the seven sons and he was too strong for them. He attacked them and he tore their clothes off. So the sons ran away from the man's house. Their bodies were bleeding and they wore no clothes. 
Acts19:17 All the Jews and Gentiles who lived in Ephesus heard about this. They became very afraid. Now they respected the name of the Lord Jesus very much. They knew that he was very powerful. 
Acts19:18 Many of the believers agreed that they had done wicked things. They told other believers about this. 
Acts19:19 Some of them had used magic to do powerful things. These people brought all their special books and they burned them in a fire. Everybody saw what they did. The books had cost a lot of money. The value of all the books was 50,000 silver coins." 
Acts19:20 As a result of this, more and more people heard the good news about the Lord Jesus. The message was powerful and people's lives changed." 
Acts19:21 After these things happened, Paul decided that he should go to Jerusalem. But first he wanted to visit the believers in Macedonia and Greece. He said, ‘After I have been to Jerusalem, I must also go to Rome.’" 
Acts19:22 At that time, Timothy and Erastus were helping Paul with his work. Paul sent them to Macedonia while he stayed longer in Asia region." 
Acts19:23 Soon after that, there was a lot of trouble in Ephesus. Some people began to speak strongly against the Way of the Lord Jesus." 
Acts19:24 In Ephesus there was a man called Demetrius. He used silver to make beautiful things. He made models that looked like the temple of Artemis. He paid a lot of money to people who did this work for him. 
Acts19:25 So he told all his workers to meet with him. He also asked other workers to come, who did the same kind of work. Demetrius said to all these men, ‘Men, you know that our work has caused us to become rich." 
Acts19:26 Also, you can see what this man Paul is doing. You have heard his message. Many people here in Ephesus, and in nearly all the places in Asia region, believe what he says. Paul teaches people this: “Anything that men have made is not really a god.”" 
Acts19:27 If people continue to believe Paul's message, it will be very bad for us. People will say bad things against our work. The house of our god Artemis will not be important any more. People will even think that Artemis herself is not a great god. As it is now, people in all of Asia region and everywhere else worship her. We do not want that to change.’" 
Acts19:28 When the workers heard Demetrius, they became very angry. They all shouted, ‘Our god Artemis of Ephesus is very great!’" 
Acts19:29 More and more people in the whole city began to shout. There was trouble everywhere. Gaius and Aristarchus had been travelling with Paul. They had come with him from Macedonia. Some people from the crowd took hold of Gaius and Aristarchus. They pulled them quickly to the big public meeting place in the middle of the city. 
Acts19:30 Paul himself wanted to go there. He wanted to speak to the crowd. But the other believers would not let him do that. 
Acts19:31 Some Roman officers in that region were Paul's friends. They also sent a message to him. They said to him, ‘Please, do not go to the meeting place.’" 
Acts19:32 The crowd of people in the meeting place continued to shout loudly. Some people were shouting one thing and other people were shouting something different. Not many of the people even knew why they had all met together. 
Acts19:33 There was a Jewish man called Alexander in the crowd. The Jews pushed him to the front of the crowd. He raised his hands towards the people, so that they would be quiet. He wanted to explain to them that he and his Jewish friends had not caused the trouble." 
Acts19:34 But the crowd knew that Alexander was a Jew. So they continued to shout the same words for about two hours. All together they shouted, ‘Our god Artemis of Ephesus is very great!’" 
Acts19:35 After two hours, an important officer of the city caused the crowd to be quiet. He said, ‘People of Ephesus! Everybody knows about our god Artemis who has her temple here in Ephesus. People come here to worship her. Her special stone that fell from the sky is also here in Ephesus. We take care of all her things. Everybody knows that!" 
Acts19:36 Nobody can say that this is not true. So be careful! Do not quickly do anything that is silly. 
Acts19:37 You have brought Gaius and Aristarchus here to the city officers' meeting place. But what bad thing have they done? They have not robbed the house of Artemis. They have not said bad things against her. 
Acts19:38 Perhaps Demetrius and his workers think that someone has done a bad thing to them. If they think that, they should let a judge decide. There are officers for the government who will do this. If someone has done a wrong thing, people should tell a judge." 
Acts19:39 So, if you want to argue about these problems any more, do it properly. Go to the place where the judges meet." 
Acts19:40 Today, there is a crowd of people who are shouting and fighting. The Roman rulers may hear about what has happened. They will say that we have done bad things. We could not explain to them the reason why there is all this trouble.’" 
Acts19:41 When the officer had said all this, he said to the crowd, ‘All of you should go home now.’" 
Acts20:1 After that, the trouble in Ephesus finished. Then Paul asked the believers to meet together with him. He spoke to them to help them. He told them to be strong and to trust God. Then he said ‘goodbye’ to them. After that he left them and he travelled on to Macedonia." 
Acts20:2 He visited many places in that region. He spoke to the believers in each place. He helped them to be strong. After that, he arrived in Greece." 
Acts20:3 Paul stayed in Greece for three months. One day, he was preparing to travel to Syria by ship. But then he heard news that some Jews wanted to kill him on the journey. So he decided to travel through Macedonia and return to Jerusalem." 
Acts20:4 These are the men who went with Paul: Sopater, the son of Pyrrhus, from Berea; Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica; Gaius from Derbe; Timothy; Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia region." 
Acts20:5 These men had all left by ship before we did. When they arrived in Troas, they waited for us there." 
Acts20:6 As for us, we sailed by ship from Philippi, after the festival when the Jews eat flat bread. After five days we arrived in Troas. We met the other men there and we all stayed there for seven days." 
Acts20:7 On the Sunday evening, we met together with the believers. We broke bread into pieces and we shared it with each other. Paul spoke to the believers for a long time, until midnight. This was because he wanted to leave Troas the next day." 
Acts20:8 Many lamps were burning in the upstairs room where we met together. 
Acts20:9 A young man called Eutychus was at the meeting. He was sitting on the edge of a window. When Paul had talked for a long time, Eutychus started to sleep. When he was really sleeping, he fell out of the window. He dropped down a long way to the ground. Some of the believers lifted him up, but he was dead." 
Acts20:10 So Paul went down the stairs to them all. He lay on top of the young man and held him with his arms. Then Paul said to them all, ‘Do not be afraid. He is still alive.’" 
Acts20:11 Paul went back upstairs. He shared bread with the believers and he ate more food. Paul talked to them for a long time, until the sun rose in the morning. Then he left Troas." 
Acts20:12 The other believers took Eutychus to his home. They were very happy because he was alive. 
Acts20:13 Paul decided to travel to Assos across the land. But we got on a ship and we sailed to Assos. We agreed with Paul that we would wait for him there. 
Acts20:14 When he met us at Assos, he came on the ship with us. Then we all sailed to Mitylene." 
Acts20:15 We sailed from there and we arrived the next day at the coast near Chios. The day after that, we came to Samos. The next day, we arrived at Miletus." 
Acts20:16 Paul had decided to leave quickly from there. He did not want to visit Ephesus, because he did not want to remain in Asia for a long time. Instead, he wanted to travel to Jerusalem quickly. He wanted to arrive there before the day of the Pentecost festival." 
Acts20:17 When we were in Miletus, Paul sent someone to Ephesus with a message. This message was for the leaders of the believers in Ephesus. Paul asked them to come to Miletus to meet him there." 
Acts20:18 When they arrived, Paul said to them, ‘You yourselves know about everything that I did here in Asia. You saw how I lived from the first day that I arrived in this region. I was with you for the whole time." 
Acts20:19 I did not say that I was an important man. Instead, I worked as a servant of the Lord Jesus. I often was sad because of trouble that came to me. Some Jewish people spoke against my message. They wanted to hurt me." 
Acts20:20 But I have not been afraid to teach God's message. I have taught you everything that would help you. I have done this outside for everyone to hear. I have also taught you in your own homes. 
Acts20:21 I have taught the same things both to Jewish people and to Gentiles. I have said clearly to them all, “You must stop doing wrong things. Change the way that you live and turn to God. Believe in our Lord Jesus.”" 
Acts20:22 Now I am going to Jerusalem. God's Holy Spirit has shown me that I must go there. I do not know what will happen to me there. 
Acts20:23 But I do know that much trouble will come to me. The Holy Spirit has told me about that. He said to me, “People will put you in prison and they will hurt you.”" 
Acts20:24 But even if people kill me, this is not important to me. The Lord Jesus gave me some work to do. It is important that I finish his work. I must tell people the good news about how kind and good God is." 
Acts20:25 I have lived among you and I have taught you all about the kingdom of God. But now I know that none of you will see me again. 
Acts20:26 So I want to say this clearly to you today. If any of you have not believed in Jesus, it is not because of me." 
Acts20:27 I have told you everything that God wants you to know. 
Acts20:28 You who are leaders should be careful about how you live. Also take care of the group of people that the Holy Spirit has chosen you to lead. Keep them safe like shepherds who take care of their sheep. All the believers belong to God because his Son, Jesus, died for them. He bought them with his blood which poured out on the cross." 
Acts20:29 I know that trouble will come to you after I leave. Bad people will come to teach you. They will cause trouble for the believers, like dangerous wild animals that attack sheep." 
Acts20:30 Even men from your own group of believers will teach things that are not true. They want to deceive other believers, so that they leave you and join with them." 
Acts20:31 So be very careful! For three years I taught you, in the day and in the night. I warned you to be careful, so that I even cried about it." 
Acts20:32 Now I ask God to keep you safe. I brought God's message to you, which tells us how kind he is. That message will cause you to be strong. As a result, God will give to you all the good things that he has for his own special people." 
Acts20:33 When I stayed among you, I did not ask you to give me money or clothes." 
Acts20:34 You yourselves know that I worked with my hands. I did that to get money. Then my friends and I could have the things that we needed. 
Acts20:35 In this way I have shown you how you should live. You should work well so that you may help sick or weak people. You should remember what Jesus himself said: “It may make you happy when you receive things. But it makes you more happy when you give things to someone.” ’ 
Acts20:36 Then Paul finished speaking. He went down on his knees together with the leaders of the believers. He prayed with them all. 
Acts20:37 They all cried a lot, because Paul wanted to leave them. They hugged him and they kissed him to say ‘goodbye’." 
Acts20:38 They were very sad because Paul had said, ‘I will never see you again.’ After that, they walked with Paul to the ship." 
Acts21:1 We said ‘goodbye’ to the leaders of the believers from Ephesus. Then we went on a ship straight across the sea, and we arrived at Cos. The next day, we continued on our journey to Rhodes. From there we went to the town of Patara." 
Acts21:2 At Patara, we found a ship that was going to Phoenicia. So we got onto the ship and we sailed across the sea." 
Acts21:3 After travelling for some time, we could see the island called Cyprus. We went south of Cyprus, and we continued as far as Syria. We arrived on the coast at the city of Tyre and we got off the ship. The ship would remain in Tyre for some days, because people had to remove the things off the ship." 
Acts21:4 We found some believers in the city. So we stayed with them for a week. The Holy Spirit showed these believers that trouble would come to Paul in Jerusalem. So they said to him, ‘Paul, you should not to go to Jerusalem.’" 
Acts21:5 After a week with the believers in Tyre, it was time for us to leave them. All the believers, together with their wives and their children, went with us out of the city. At the beach, we all went down on our knees and we prayed together." 
Acts21:6 Then we said ‘goodbye’ to each other and the believers returned to their homes in the city. We went and we got on the ship again, together with Paul." 
Acts21:7 We continued our journey across the sea. We sailed from Tyre to Ptolemais. There, we met some believers and we stayed with them for one day." 
Acts21:8 The next day, we left Ptolemais and we sailed to Caesarea. We stayed there with Philip. He was someone who taught people the good news about Jesus. He was one of the seven men that the believers had chosen in Jerusalem." 
Acts21:9 He had four daughters who were not married. They spoke messages from God. 
Acts21:10 We stayed with Philip in Caesarea for a few days. Then a man called Agabus arrived in the city from Judea. He was a prophet and he spoke messages from God. 
Acts21:10 We stayed with Philip in Caesarea for a few days. Then a man called Agabus arrived in the city from Judea. He was a prophet and he spoke messages from God. 
Acts21:11 Agabus came to where we were. He took Paul's belt and he tied it around his own feet and hands. He said, ‘Listen to this message from the Holy Spirit. “The Jewish leaders in Jerusalem will take hold of the man who has this belt. They will tie his hands and his feet. Then they will give him to the Gentiles to be their prisoner.” ’" 
Acts21:12 When we heard Agabus's message, we all said many times to Paul, ‘Please do not go to Jerusalem.’" 
Acts21:13 But Paul answered, ‘Stop crying like this! You are making me very sad! I am ready for men in Jerusalem to take hold of me. They may tie me up, and I may even die there. I am ready for all this because I believe in the Lord Jesus.’" 
Acts21:14 We could not cause Paul to think in a different way. So we stopped saying to him, ‘You should not go to Jerusalem.’ Instead we said to him, ‘We want the Lord God to do what he wants.’" 
Acts21:15 We stayed in Caesarea for a few days. Then we prepared ourselves to travel across land. We left there to go to Jerusalem. 
Acts21:16 Some of the believers from Caesarea also went with us. They took us to the house of a man called Mnason. We had decided to stay with him. His home town was on the island called Cyprus. He had been a believer for a long time. 
Acts21:17 When we arrived in Jerusalem, the believers there were very happy to welcome us." 
Acts21:18 The next day, we went with Paul to see James. The leaders of the believers were also there." 
Acts21:18 The next day, we went with Paul to see James. The leaders of the believers were also there." 
Acts21:19 Paul said, ‘hello’ to them and then he told them everything about his work. God had helped him to do many good things for the Gentiles." 
Acts21:20 After the leaders had listened to Paul, they praised God. Then they said, ‘ Brother Paul, you can see the problem. There are now many thousands of Jews who have believed in Jesus. But they also really want to obey the Law of Moses." 
Acts21:21 These Jews here have heard about what you teach Jewish people in other countries. They think that you say to them, “You do not need to obey the Law of Moses any longer. You do not need to circumcise your children. You do not need to live in the way that Jewish people usually live.”" 
Acts21:22 We need to do something about this problem. These Jewish believers will certainly hear that you are in Jerusalem. 
Acts21:23 We will tell you what you must do. There are four Jewish men in our group who have made a promise to God. 
Acts21:24 You must go with these men to the temple. There, they will wash to make themselves clean in front of God. Join with them when they do that. Then pay the priest the money for their sacrifices. After that, the men can cut the hair off their heads. When you do that, everyone will understand about you. They will see what you have done. They will know that you yourself obey the Law of Moses. They will know that what they have heard about you is not true." 
Acts21:25 But it is different for the Gentiles who believe in Jesus. We have already sent a letter to them. We wrote, “Do not eat any food that people have given to their idols. Do not eat anything that still has blood in it. If people have strangled an animal to kill it, do not eat its meat. Do not have sex with anyone that you are not married to.” ’" 
Acts21:26 So the next day, Paul went with the four men. He joined with them when they washed to make themselves clean in front of God. Then he went into the yard of the temple. He told the priest there when the four men would finish their promise to God. This would be after seven days. After that, each man would give an animal as a sacrifice to God." 
Acts21:27 At the end of those seven days, some Jews from Asia region saw Paul in the temple. They said some bad things against Paul to the crowd. So the people became angry and they took hold of Paul." 
Acts21:28 The Jews from Asia shouted, ‘People of Israel, come and help us! This is the man who goes everywhere and he teaches everyone bad things. He speaks against us, the people of Israel. He also speaks against the Law of Moses and against this temple. Now he has even brought some Gentiles into this temple. So now this special place is not clean in front of God any longer.’" 
Acts21:29 (These men had earlier seen Paul in the city with a man called Trophimus. Trophimus was a Gentile who came from Ephesus. They thought that Paul had brought Trophimus into the temple. That is why they shouted bad things against Paul.) 
Acts21:30 Many other people in the city heard about the trouble and they also became angry. They all ran from their homes to the temple and they took hold of Paul. Then they pulled him out of the temple yard and they closed the gates immediately. 
Acts21:31 The angry crowd was trying to kill Paul. But someone sent a message to the leader of the Roman soldiers. The message was, ‘People are fighting everywhere in the city.’" 
Acts21:32 So the soldiers' leader quickly took some other officers and a large group of soldiers and they ran down to the crowd. The angry crowd of people saw the leader with his soldiers. So then they stopped hitting Paul. 
Acts21:33 The Roman soldiers' leader went to Paul and he took hold of him. He said to his men, ‘Tie two chains around the arms of this man.’ Then he asked the people in the crowd, ‘Who is this man and what has he done?’" 
Acts21:34 Some people in the crowd shouted one thing and other people shouted something different. There was so much noise that the leader of the soldiers was not sure about the true facts. He did not know what had really happened. So he said to his soldiers, ‘Take this man up into our strong building!’" 
Acts21:35 The soldiers then led Paul as far as the steps of their building. Then they had to carry him because the crowd was so angry. 
Acts21:36 The crowd followed behind Paul and the soldiers. They were shouting, ‘Kill him!’" 
Acts21:37 While the soldiers were leading Paul into their building, he asked their leader, ‘Please may I say something to you?’ The soldiers' leader replied, ‘Oh! Do you speak the Greek language?" 
Acts21:38 I thought that you must be that bad man who came from Egypt. He was the one who fought against our Roman government. Some time ago, he led 4,000 of his own men out into the wilderness, with their weapons.’" 
Acts21:39 Paul answered, ‘I am a Jew and I was born in Tarsus in the region called Cilicia. So you see, I am a man from an important city. Please, let me speak to this crowd.’" 
Acts21:40 The leader of the soldiers said to Paul, ‘Yes, you may speak to the people.’ So Paul stood still on the steps of the soldiers' building. He raised his hands towards them so that the people became quiet. Then he spoke to them in Aramaic, the Jewish people's own language." 
Acts22:1 Paul said to the crowd, ‘Listen to me, Jewish brothers and leaders. I want to explain to you what has happened here.’" 
Acts22:2 The crowd heard Paul speaking to them in Aramaic, their own language. So they became really quiet. Then Paul said," 
Acts22:3 ‘I am a Jew. I was born in Tarsus in the region of Cilicia. I lived here in Jerusalem when I was a boy. I studied God's Law for many years and Gamaliel was my teacher. I learned very well how to obey the laws of our ancestors. I tried to obey God as carefully as all of you do today. 
Acts22:4 I caused great trouble to the disciples of Jesus. I even wanted to kill them. I took hold of them and I put them in prison. I did that to both men and women. 
Acts22:5 The most important priest and all the group of Jewish leaders can tell you that this is true. They gave me letters for the Jewish leaders in Damascus. So I travelled to Damascus to take hold of the believers in that city. I wanted to tie them up and bring them back to Jerusalem. Then the leaders here could punish them. 
Acts22:6 As I was travelling, I came near to Damascus. About midday, a bright light from the sky suddenly shone around me." 
Acts22:7 I fell down to the ground. Then I heard a voice that said to me, “Saul, Saul, why do you fight against me?”" 
Acts22:8 “ Lord, who are you?” I asked. He said to me, “I am Jesus from Nazareth. And you are fighting against me.”" 
Acts22:9 The men who travelled with me saw the light. But they did not understand the voice that spoke to me. 
Acts22:10 I asked, “Lord, what must I do?” He said to me, “Get up now and go into Damascus. When you arrive in the city, someone will come to you. He will tell you what God wants you to do.”" 
Acts22:11 The bright light hurt my eyes so that I could not see. So the men who were with me held my hand. They led me into Damascus. 
Acts22:12 In Damascus, there was a man called Ananias. He worshipped God and he obeyed our Law. All the Jews in Damascus said good things about him." 
Acts22:13 Ananias came to see me. He stood near to me and he said, “ Brother Saul, see again!” Then immediately I could see again. I could look at him." 
Acts22:14 Then Ananias said to me, “The God that our ancestors worshipped has chosen you. He will tell you what he wants you to do. God has caused you to see the Righteous One. You have heard his voice as he spoke to you." 
Acts22:15 You will tell people everywhere about the things that you have seen and heard. That is what God wants you to do. 
Acts22:16 So now you do not need to wait any longer. Stand up and I will baptize you. Believe in the Lord Jesus so that God will forgive you for your sins.” 
Acts22:17 So then I returned to Jerusalem. I went into the temple and I was praying there. I had a vision. 
Acts22:18 In the vision, I saw the Lord and he spoke to me. He said, “Hurry. Leave Jerusalem quickly. The people here will not believe what you say to them about me.”" 
Acts22:19 I replied, “Lord, the people here know what I have been doing. I went to all our Jewish meeting places to look for people who believed in you. When I found them, I put them in prison. I also hit them with sticks to punish them." 
Acts22:20 I myself was there when the people killed Stephen. He was your servant who told people your message. But I agreed that it was right to kill him. I even held the coats of the people while they killed him.” 
Acts22:21 But then the Lord said to me, “Go! I will now send you a long way away. You must go and tell the Gentiles my message.” ’" 
Acts22:22 The people listened carefully to Paul until he spoke about the Gentiles. Then they began to shout loudly, ‘Take him away! Kill him! It is not right that he should live any longer!’" 
Acts22:23 While they were shouting this, they were taking off their coats. They also threw dirt from the ground up into the air." 
Acts22:24 The leader of the soldiers said to his men, ‘Take this man into our building. Then hit him with whips. We must find out what he has done. He must tell us why the Jews are shouting so loudly against him.’" 
Acts22:25 So the soldiers tied Paul's arms and they were ready to hit him. But Paul spoke to the soldiers' officer who stood near to him. He said, ‘I am a citizen of Rome. So it is not right for you to hit me like that. No judge has agreed that I have done anything wrong.’" 
Acts22:26 The officer heard what Paul said. So he went to the leader of the soldiers and he said, ‘That man is a citizen of Rome! Be careful what you do to him!’" 
Acts22:27 So the soldiers' leader went to speak to Paul. He asked him, ‘Tell me. Are you really a citizen of Rome?’ Paul answered, ‘Yes, I am.’" 
Acts22:28 The soldiers' leader said, ‘I paid a lot of money to the government so that I could become a citizen of Rome.’ Paul replied, ‘But I was already a citizen of Rome when I was born.’" 
Acts22:29 Immediately, the men who wanted to hit Paul with whips moved away from him. The leader of the soldiers was also very afraid. He had tied chains around Paul's arms and legs. He knew that he should not have done that to a citizen of Rome." 
Acts22:30 The soldiers' leader wanted to find the reason why the Jews had said bad things against Paul. He wanted to know what was really true. So the next day, he told his soldiers to remove the chains from Paul. He sent a message to the most important priest and to all the group of Jewish leaders. He told them to meet together with him. Then he took Paul to their meeting. He made Paul stand in front of them." 
Acts23:1 Paul looked at the group of Jewish leaders and he said to them, ‘My Jewish friends, God knows that I have nothing to be ashamed about today. I have always respected God's Law.’" 
Acts23:2 The most important priest, who was called Ananias, heard Paul's words. He said to the men who were near Paul, ‘Hit that man on his mouth!’" 
Acts23:3 Paul said to him, ‘God will certainly hit you! You are a hypocrite! You are sitting there and you are judging me. You are asking if I obey the Law. But you yourself do not obey the Law! You should not have said, “Hit that man!” ’" 
Acts23:4 The men who were standing near Paul said to him, ‘You must not insult our most important priest!’" 
Acts23:5 Paul replied, ‘My brothers, I did not know that this man is the most important priest. Our Jewish law says, “Do not say bad things against the man who rules your people.” So I should not have said anything bad against him.’" 
Acts23:6 Then Paul saw that there were some Sadducees and also some Pharisees in the meeting. So he shouted out to the whole group of Jewish leaders, ‘My brothers, I am a Pharisee! My father was also a Pharisee. I believe that dead people will certainly rise and they will live again. That is the reason why you are judging me today.’" 
Acts23:7 As soon as Paul said that, the Pharisees and the Sadducees began to argue with each other. The Jewish leaders could not agree together." 
Acts23:8 (The Sadducees do not believe that dead people will live again. They do not believe that there are angels or spirits. But the Pharisees believe in all these things.) 
Acts23:9 The Sadducees and the Pharisees began to shout louder and louder against each other. There were some teachers of God's Law who were in the group of Pharisees. They stood up in the meeting and they said, ‘We do not believe that this man has done anything wrong. What he says may be true. A spirit or an angel may have spoken to him.’" 
Acts23:10 The two groups argued more and more strongly. The leader of the soldiers thought that the people there might attack Paul. So he said to his soldiers, ‘Go down into the group and take Paul away from them. Take him back with you into our strong building.’" 
Acts23:11 The next night, the Lord Jesus came and he stood near Paul. He said to Paul, ‘Do not be afraid! You have told people here in Jerusalem about me. You must also do the same thing in Rome.’" 
Acts23:12 The next morning, a group of Jews talked together about how they might kill Paul. They agreed to make a promise to God. They would not eat or drink anything until they had killed Paul." 
Acts23:13 More than 40 men were in the group that decided this. 
Acts23:14 They went to the leaders of the priests and the important Jews. They said to them, ‘We have agreed together to make a serious promise to God. We will not eat anything until we have killed Paul." 
Acts23:15 So now we want you and the group of Jewish leaders to send a message to the leader of the Roman soldiers. Ask him, “Please bring Paul to the meeting of the Jewish leaders. We want to know more about the wrong things that he has done.” That will be the message. But, we will wait for Paul and we will be ready to kill him. We will do this before he arrives here at the meeting.’" 
Acts23:16 But the son of Paul's sister heard what the Jews had decided to do. He went into the soldiers' building and he told Paul about it. 
Acts23:17 So Paul asked one of the soldiers' officers to come to him. He said, ‘Please take this young man to your leader. He has something important to tell him.’" 
Acts23:18 Then the officer led the young man to the soldiers' leader. He said to him, ‘Paul, who is here in the prison, spoke to me. He asked me to bring this young man to you. He has something to tell you.’" 
Acts23:19 The leader of the soldiers held the young man's hand and he led him to another place. When they were alone, he asked the young man, ‘What do you want to tell me?’" 
Acts23:20 The young man said, ‘Some Jewish men have agreed together to send a message to you. They will ask you to take Paul down to the meeting of the Jewish leaders tomorrow. They will say that they want to ask him more questions. But that is not true." 
Acts23:21 Do not agree to do what they want. There are more than 40 men who will be hiding somewhere. They are waiting for Paul. They have made a serious promise to God. They will not eat or drink anything until they have killed Paul. They are now ready to do this. They will be waiting to hear your answer.’ 
Acts23:22 The leader of the soldiers said to him, ‘Do not tell anyone that you told me about this.’ Then he sent the young man away." 
Acts23:23 Then the soldiers' leader told two of his officers to come to him. He said to them, ‘Tell 200 of our soldiers to prepare themselves. They must go to Caesarea at nine o'clock tonight. 70 soldiers who ride on horses must also go. There must also be another 200 soldiers with their weapons." 
Acts23:24 Take some horses for Paul to ride on. Take him to Felix the Roman ruler, and keep him safe on the journey.’" 
Acts23:25 Then the soldiers' leader wrote a letter to Felix. He sent this message: 
Acts23:26 ‘I, Claudius Lysias, write this letter. I say “hello” to you, Felix, our great ruler." 
Acts23:27 I am sending this man to you. The Jews took hold of him and they wanted to kill him. I found out that he is a citizen of Rome. Because of that, I took my soldiers and I saved him from them." 
Acts23:28 The Jews said that he had done some wrong things. I wanted to know what was really true, so I took him to a meeting of their leaders." 
Acts23:29 The Jewish leaders said that he had not obeyed their own laws. But that was all. We could not put him in prison or kill him because of these things. That would not be right. 
Acts23:30 But a group of Jews had made plans to kill him. Someone told me about this, so I decided to send him to you immediately. I have told the Jewish leaders also to come to you in Caesarea. Then they can tell you what bad things they say this man has done.’" 
Acts23:31 The soldiers did what their leader had told them to do. They took Paul out from the prison in their building. That night, they took him as far as Antipatris." 
Acts23:32 The next day, the soldiers who had walked returned to their building in Jerusalem. But the soldiers who rode horses continued to travel with Paul." 
Acts23:33 When the soldiers arrived in Caesarea, they gave the letter to Felix, the ruler. They also brought Paul to him." 
Acts23:34 Felix read the letter and he asked Paul, ‘Which Roman region are you from?’ Paul answered, ‘I am from Cilicia.’" 
Acts23:35 Felix said, ‘When the Jews arrive, they will tell me about you. I will also listen to you. I will decide what is right.’ Felix then said to his soldiers, ‘Put this man in the prison in Herod's house. Put guards there to watch him carefully!’" 
Acts24:1 Five days after that, Ananias, the leader of the priests, went to Caesarea. Some important Jews went with him. A man called Tertullus also went with them. He was a lawyer. All these people went to meet with Felix, the ruler. They told Felix what Paul had done. Felix would judge who was right." 
Acts24:2 Felix told a soldier to bring Paul to the meeting. Then Tertullus began to accuse Paul. He said to Felix, ‘Sir, you have ruled us well for many years. Because of you, our country has had no wars for a long time. You have made new laws that are good for our country. You have thought well about how you should lead us." 
Acts24:3 Everywhere, the people are happy about what you have done. So we want to thank you very much for all these good things." 
Acts24:4 I do not want you to sit here for a long time. So I will speak for a short time about our problem. Please be kind to us and listen to me. 
Acts24:5 We know that this man brings trouble everywhere. Anywhere in the world that Jewish people live, he makes them angry. Then they all fight each other. He is the leader of a group called the Nazarenes." 
Acts24:6 He also did bad things in the temple that are against our laws. So we took hold of him. [We wanted to judge him by what our own law says. 
Acts24:7 But Lysias, the leader of the soldiers, came to us. He attacked us and he took Paul away from us." 
Acts24:8 Then he told us to come and to speak to you about it.] You should ask this man some questions about what he has done. You will realize that what we say against him is true.’ 
Acts24:9 The other Jews that were there also spoke against Paul. They said, ‘All these things that Tertullus has said are true.’" 
Acts24:10 Then Felix raised his hand towards Paul to show that he should speak. So Paul said to Felix, ‘I know that you have judged the people in this region for many years. So now I am happy to tell you everything." 
Acts24:11 I went to Jerusalem less than 12 days ago. You can check that that is true. I went there to worship God. 
Acts24:12 When the Jews saw me in the temple, I was not arguing with anyone. I was not causing trouble among Jewish people in their meeting places. Nor did I cause problems in any other places in Jerusalem." 
Acts24:13 They have said bad things against me. But they cannot show you that these things are true. 
Acts24:14 What I do agree is this: I worship the same God that our Jewish ancestors worshipped. But I do this in the Way that Jesus has taught us. These men say that this is not the right way. But I believe in all God's Law that Moses wrote for us. I also believe in the messages that God's prophets have written in the Bible. 
Acts24:15 I also trust God like these men do. Like them, I believe that people will become alive again after death. God will do this for all people, both good people and bad people." 
Acts24:16 Because of that, I always try to do what is right. I do not want to do anything bad against God or against other people." 
Acts24:17 I had not been to Jerusalem for several years. At this time, I returned there with a gift of some money. I brought it to help poor people who are Jews, like me. I also wanted to offer sacrifices to God." 
Acts24:18 I was doing this in the yard of the temple when these men found me. I had obeyed all the rules to make myself clean in front of God. There was no crowd with me. Nobody was arguing or fighting because of me. 
Acts24:19 But there were some Jews there who had come from Asia. They are the people who caused the trouble. Maybe they have something bad to say against me. They themselves should come here to speak to you about it. 
Acts24:20 Or these men here should tell you what wrong thing I have done. I stood in front of the meeting of the Jewish leaders and they asked me questions. 
Acts24:21 When I stood there, I shouted, “I believe that dead people will rise and they will live again. That is the reason why you are judging me today.” They might say that I was wrong to say that. That is the only thing.’" 
Acts24:22 Felix knew much about the Way of the Lord Jesus. He now said that the meeting had finished. He said to Paul, ‘Soon Lysias, the leader of the soldiers, will arrive here. Then I will decide what to do with you.’" 
Acts24:23 He said to the officer who was holding Paul, ‘Continue to watch this man carefully. But his friends can come and visit him. They can help him and they can bring things for him.’" 
Acts24:24 After some days, Felix came with Drusilla, his Jewish wife. He told his soldiers to bring Paul to them. Paul talked to them and they listened to everything that he said. Paul spoke about how people believed in Jesus, the Messiah." 
Acts24:25 He continued to speak for some time. He said, ‘People need to do what is right. They need to stop themselves doing wrong things. One day, God will judge people for how they have lived.’ While Paul talked about these things, Felix became afraid. He said to Paul, ‘You should leave us now. At some time I may want to listen to you again. Then I will ask you to come to me again.’" 
Acts24:26 But Felix also hoped that Paul would give him some money as a bribe. For that reason he often met with Paul and they talked together. 
Acts24:27 This happened for two years. Felix left Paul in the prison, because he wanted to make the Jewish leaders happy. Then Porcius Festus became the ruler instead of Felix." 
Acts25:1 Three days after Festus began to rule in Caesarea, he travelled from there to Jerusalem." 
Acts25:2 When he arrived, the leaders of the priests and the Jewish leaders told him about Paul. They spoke bad things against Paul." 
Acts25:3 They said to Festus, ‘Please listen to us. We really want you to bring Paul here to Jerusalem. You can judge him here. Then we would be very happy.’ They wanted to kill Paul while he was travelling to Jerusalem." 
Acts25:4 But Festus answered them, ‘Paul will remain in prison in Caesarea. I myself will return there soon." 
Acts25:5 So your leaders should go to Caesarea with me. If this man has done anything wrong, they can speak against him there. I will listen and I will judge.’" 
Acts25:6 Festus stayed for another eight or ten days in Jerusalem. Then he returned to Caesarea. The next day, he sat down on his special seat as judge. He said to his soldiers, ‘Bring Paul here!’" 
Acts25:7 Some of the Jewish leaders had also come from Jerusalem. When Paul came into the room, they all stood around him. They began to speak to Festus against Paul. They said that he had done very many bad things. But they could not show Festus that these things were really true." 
Acts25:8 Then Paul spoke to show that he was not guilty. He said, ‘I have not done anything wrong against our Jewish laws or against the temple in Jerusalem. Also, I have not done anything wrong against your Roman ruler, Caesar.’" 
Acts25:9 Festus wanted to make the Jewish leaders happy. So he said to Paul, ‘I would like to judge this problem in Jerusalem. Would you agree to go there? Then I can decide if you are guilty.’" 
Acts25:10 Paul answered him, ‘I am already in the place where Caesar's officers judge people. This is the right place for you to judge me. I have never done anything wrong against the Jews. You yourself know very well that it is true." 
Acts25:11 Have I done something bad that you should kill me for it? If that is true, then I will agree to it. It is right that I should die. But these Jews are not speaking true words against me. Nobody should let them take hold of me. So now I ask you to send me to Caesar himself. I want him to be the judge.’" 
Acts25:12 Festus talked to his officers about what Paul had said. Then he said to Paul, ‘You have asked to go to Caesar, for him to be your judge. So you will go to Caesar!’" 
Acts25:13 Several days after this, King Agrippa and Bernice came to Caesarea. They wanted to say ‘welcome’ to Festus as the new ruler." 
Acts25:14 They stayed in Caesarea for many days. While they were there, Festus explained to King Agrippa the problem about Paul. He said, ‘There is a man here that Felix left in prison." 
Acts25:15 When I went to Jerusalem, the important Jews and the leaders of their priests spoke to me about him. They said, “Paul has done some very bad things. You should judge him and he should die.”" 
Acts25:16 I answered them, “You are saying that this man has done wrong things. He must first stand in front of you who are speaking against him. Then he can answer you and I can judge who is right. That is what our Roman law says must happen.”" 
Acts25:17 So when I came back here, the Jewish leaders and the leaders of their priests came with me. I did not wait for long. The next day I sat down on my special seat as judge. I told my soldiers to bring this man to me." 
Acts25:18 The men who had spoken against him stood up. I thought they would say that Paul had done some very bad thing. But they did not say that. 
Acts25:19 Instead, they were arguing with Paul about what the Jews teach about God. They were arguing about a man who was called Jesus. Jesus had died. But Paul was saying that he is alive." 
Acts25:20 I did not know how I could judge all these problems. So I told Paul, “I want to take you to Jerusalem. Would you agree to go there? Then I will listen to what these men are saying against you. I will decide there if you are guilty.”" 
Acts25:21 But Paul did not want to go to Jerusalem. He said to me, “Please keep me safe here in prison. Then send me to Caesar. He himself should decide what to do with me.” So I said to my soldiers, “Keep Paul safe here until I send him to Caesar.” ’" 
Acts25:22 Agrippa said to Festus, ‘I would like to hear this man myself.’ Festus replied, ‘You will hear him tomorrow.’" 
Acts25:23 The next day, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived in Caesarea's public meeting room. They wore beautiful clothes to show that they were great people. Some Roman soldiers' officers and important men in the city also arrived there. Festus said to his soldiers, ‘Bring Paul here to us!’ So they brought Paul into the room." 
Acts25:24 Festus said, ‘King Agrippa, and everyone here today, listen to me! You see this man who is standing in front of you. Many Jews in Jerusalem, and also Jews here in Caesarea, have spoken to me about him. They shout and they say, “This man has done very bad things. He should not continue to live!”" 
Acts25:25 But I could not find any reason to kill him. He has not done anything against our law. But he has asked for Caesar himself to judge him. So I have decided to send him to Rome. 
Acts25:26 But I do not know what to write about him to our ruler, Caesar. So I have brought him here to stand in front of all of you. I ask you, King Agrippa, to listen carefully to what Paul says. Then we can talk about the problem together. As a result, I will know what to write about him to Caesar." 
Acts25:27 I need to tell Caesar what wrong things this man has done. If I cannot do that, it would not be right to send him to Rome.’" 
Acts26:1 King Agrippa said to Paul, ‘You may now speak on your own behalf.’ Paul raised his hand so that people would listen to him." 
Acts26:2 He said, ‘King Agrippa, I am happy that you are here. I ask you to listen to me today. These Jews say that I have done some bad things. I will explain to you why I am not guilty." 
Acts26:3 You yourself know all about the Jews. You know about how we live. You also know the things that we argue about with each other. So please be patient and listen to me. 
Acts26:4 The Jewish people all know about me. They know the way that I have lived among them since I was a child. They knew me in the region where I was born. When I came to Jerusalem, they also know how I lived there." 
Acts26:5 So they have known me for a long time. They could tell you that I always obeyed our Jewish laws. They know that I was a Pharisee. I carefully obeyed God's Law, as a Pharisee does. But maybe they do not want to tell you all that." 
Acts26:6 Now I stand here today for you to judge me. This has happened because I believe in God's promise to our ancestors. 
Acts26:7 He promised a great thing to our 12 Israelite tribes. We Jews all expect to receive what God has promised to us. That is why we Jews always worship God, in the day and in the night. Like these Jews here, I believe in God's great promise. But that is the reason that they speak against me, sir." 
Acts26:8 God can surely cause dead people to become alive again! Why do you people refuse to believe that? 
Acts26:9 I myself wanted to work against Jesus, the man from Nazareth. I did everything that I could do to destroy his message." 
Acts26:10 That is what I was doing in Jerusalem. The leaders of the priests gave me authority to put many of the believers in prison. I agreed with our leaders when they said, “These people must die.”" 
Acts26:11 I went to our Jewish meeting places to take hold of believers. I told my men to punish them. I tried to make the believers say bad things against God. I was very angry with them. So I even travelled to cities in other countries to punish them. 
Acts26:12 For that reason, one day I was travelling to Damascus. The leaders of the priests in Jerusalem had sent me there. They had given me authority to take hold of the believers there." 
Acts26:13 Listen to this, King Agrippa! I was travelling along the road at midday. Suddenly I saw a very bright light in the sky. It was much brighter than the sun. It shone all around me and also around the men who were with me." 
Acts26:14 All of us fell down to the ground. I heard a voice that spoke to me in my own language, Aramaic. He said “Saul, Saul, why do you fight against me? You are like an ox that kicks against its master's stick. So you are hurting yourself.”" 
Acts26:15 “ Lord, who are you?” I asked. He replied, “I am Jesus. And you are fighting against me." 
Acts26:16 Now you must get up. Stand on your feet. I have chosen you to be my servant. That is why I have appeared to you today. You must tell other people about what you have seen. After that, I will show you other things that you must tell people." 
Acts26:17 I will send you to speak about me to Jews and to Gentiles. Some of them will want to hurt you. But I will keep you safe. 
Acts26:18 You will help them to understand what is true. They are like people who live in the dark. Teach them what is true about me. Then they will be like people who live in the light. Now Satan has power over them. Lead them from there into God's kingdom. Then God will forgive them for the wrong things that they have done. Because they believe in me, God will accept them as his own people.” ’" 
Acts26:19 ‘So you should know this, King Agrippa. I obeyed the things that I heard from heaven that day." 
Acts26:20 First, I taught God's message to the Jews in Damascus. Then I also taught God's message to the Jews in Jerusalem and in all of Judea region. Later I also spoke to the Gentiles. I said to all of them, “You must stop doing wrong things. You must turn to God. You must do good things. That will show that you have really changed how you live.”" 
Acts26:20 First, I taught God's message to the Jews in Damascus. Then I also taught God's message to the Jews in Jerusalem and in all of Judea region. Later I also spoke to the Gentiles. I said to all of them, “You must stop doing wrong things. You must turn to God. You must do good things. That will show that you have really changed how you live.”" 
Acts26:21 That is the reason that the Jews took hold of me in the yard of the temple. That is also the reason why they wanted to kill me. 
Acts26:22 But God has helped me every day, even until today. So now I stand here and I can tell you what is true. I say the same thing to people who are very important and to people who are not important. I am telling you the same things that Moses and God's other prophets wrote about. They also said that these things would happen." 
Acts26:23 They said that God's special Messiah would have much pain and he would die. But God would raise him up to be alive again. He would be the first dead person to become alive and not die again. In that way, he would show God's message and bring light to people. He would save both Jewish people and Gentiles. That is what the prophets and Moses wrote. And I say the same thing.’" 
Acts26:24 While Paul was still speaking to Agrippa, Festus shouted at him, ‘Paul, your mind is confused! You have learned many things. But all these things are making you crazy.’" 
Acts26:25 Paul said, ‘Festus, sir, I am not crazy. Everything that I have said is true. It is not difficult to understand." 
Acts26:26 King Agrippa knows about these things. He understands what I am talking about. None of these things happened in secret places. So I am sure that he has heard news about all this. 
Acts26:27 King Agrippa, do you believe what God's prophets taught? I know that you do believe them.’" 
Acts26:28 Then Agrippa said to Paul, ‘Can you change me to become a Christian in such a short time? Is that what you think?’" 
Acts26:29 Paul answered him, ‘It is not important if it takes a long time or a short time. I pray to God for you and for everyone who is listening to me today. I pray that you may all become like me. But I would not want you to become a prisoner like me!’" 
Acts26:30 Then King Agrippa, the ruler Festus, and Bernice all prepared to leave. Everyone else there also stood up." 
Acts26:31 After they left the meeting room, they said to each other, ‘This man has not done anything bad. We should not kill him, or even hold him in prison.’" 
Acts26:32 King Agrippa said to Festus, ‘We could have let this man go free from the prison. But he has asked that Caesar should judge him. So we cannot let him go free.’" 
Acts27:1 After some time, Festus decided that we should sail to Italy. So he put Paul and some other prisoners under the authority of a soldier called Julius. Julius was an officer in the Roman army. He was the leader of a group of soldiers called ‘The Emperor Augustus Group’." 
Acts27:2 We went onto a ship that had come from Adramyttium. This ship was ready to leave. It would sail to the towns on the coast of Asia region. A man called Aristarchus also sailed with us. He came from a city in Macedonia called Thessalonica. 
Acts27:3 The next day after we had left Caesarea, we arrived at Sidon. Julius was kind to Paul. He allowed Paul to go and visit his friends there. They gave Paul the things that he needed." 
Acts27:4 Then we travelled across the sea again. But the wind was blowing against our ship. So we sailed round the island called Cyprus. We sailed on the side of the island where the wind was not strong. 
Acts27:5 When we were near to Cilicia and Pamphylia, we sailed away from the land across the sea. Then we arrived at Myra, in the region called Lycia." 
Acts27:6 The Roman officer found another ship there. It had sailed from Alexandria and it would sail to Italy. So the officer put us on this ship. 
Acts27:7 We sailed slowly for several days. It was difficult to sail, but after some time we arrived near the town of Cnidus. Because of the strong wind, we could not continue to sail in that direction. So we sailed along the side of the island called Crete, where the wind was not strong. We sailed past the point of land called Salmone." 
Acts27:8 It was still difficult to sail, so we sailed near to the coast. Then we arrived at a place called ‘Safe Port’. This port was near to the town of Lasea." 
Acts27:9 We remained there for many days. By then it had become dangerous to continue the journey. It was already after the Day of Atonement. So Paul spoke to the army officer and to the sailors. 
Acts27:10 He said, ‘Friends, I understand that now our journey will be dangerous. The ship may break in pieces. You may lose the things that the ship is carrying. We may even die.’" 
Acts27:11 But the army officer did not believe what Paul said. Instead, he agreed to do what the owner of the ship and the captain said." 
Acts27:12 This port was not a good place for a ship to remain during the winter. Most of the men on the ship wanted to continue the journey. They wanted to sail as far as Phoenix, if they could get there. They could stay there for the winter. Phoenix was a port on the island called Crete. It was open to the sea both to the south-west and to the north-west." 
Acts27:13 The wind began to blow from the south, but it was not strong. So the sailors thought, ‘Now we can do what we wanted to do. We can sail to Phoenix.’ So they pulled up the ship's anchor and left the port. Then we sailed as near as we could to the coast of Crete." 
Acts27:14 But soon a very strong wind began to blow. This wind blew from the north-east and it blew strongly across the island. 
Acts27:15 The storm hit the ship very powerfully. It was not possible for the sailors to sail the ship straight into the wind. So they did not try to do that any more. Instead, they let the wind blow the ship along." 
Acts27:16 After that, we passed the south end of a small island called Cauda. Here we found a place where the wind did not blow so strongly. The sailors lifted the ship's small boat out of the water to make it safe." 
Acts27:17 They tied it on the ship with ropes. Then they tied some more ropes under the ship so that it would not break in pieces. The men were afraid of what might happen. There were some places along the coast of Libya where the water was not very deep. The ship might hit one of these places and then it might break. So they took the ship's largest sail down. Then they let the wind blow the ship along. 
Acts27:18 The strong storm continued to blow against the ship. The ship was carrying many things. So the next day, the sailors threw some of these things into the sea." 
Acts27:19 The day after that, they took hold of the sails and ropes and they threw them into the sea." 
Acts27:20 For many days, we did not see the sun or any stars. The storm continued to blow strongly. So then we thought, ‘It is not possible for us to remain alive.’" 
Acts27:21 The men on the ship had not eaten any food for a long time. So Paul stood in front of them and he said, ‘Men, you should have listened to me! We should not have sailed away from Crete. If we had not left there, the ship and everything on it would still be safe." 
Acts27:22 Now I ask you, please be brave. The storm will completely destroy the ship, but not one of you will die." 
Acts27:23 Last night one of God's angels spoke to me. I am a servant of God and I belong to him. He sent his angel to come to me. 
Acts27:24 The angel said, “Paul, do not be afraid. You must go to Rome and Caesar will judge you there. Because of you, God will be kind to all the people on the ship with you. None of them will die.”" 
Acts27:25 Because of the angel's message, I say to you, “Be brave, my friends!” I trust God. I know that everything will happen in the way that the angel told me." 
Acts27:26 But the wind will blow the ship so that we hit an island.’ 
Acts27:27 The storm had continued for 14 days and nights. The strong wind was blowing the ship across the Mediterranean Sea. About midnight, the sailors thought that we were near to the land." 
Acts27:28 So they used a rope to measure how deep the water was. They saw that the water was nearly 40 metres deep. A short time later they did this again. This time the water was only 30 metres deep. 
Acts27:29 The sailors were afraid that the ship would hit some rocks. So they dropped four anchors on ropes from the back of the ship into the sea. After that, they prayed that dawn would come soon." 
Acts27:30 Some of the sailors tried to leave the ship. They put the small boat into the sea. They tried to go away secretly. They said, ‘We are going to the front of the ship to put some more anchors down into the sea.’ But that was not true." 
Acts27:31 Paul said to the army officer and to the soldiers, ‘These sailors must stay on the ship. If they do not stay, you will not be safe. You will die.’" 
Acts27:32 So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the small boat to the ship. The small boat fell into the water and the wind blew it away. 
Acts27:33 Now it was almost dawn. Paul said to everyone, ‘Please eat some food. You have now waited for 14 days for the storm to stop. You did not know what would happen. You have not eaten anything during all that time." 
Acts27:34 You must eat some food now. Then you will be strong enough to stay alive. None of you will die. You will not even lose one hair from your head.’ 
Acts27:35 After Paul said this, he took some bread in his hands. He stood in front of them all and he thanked God for the bread. Then he broke the bread into pieces and he began to eat it." 
Acts27:36 Everyone became less afraid and we all ate some food. 
Acts27:37 There were 276 people on the ship. 
Acts27:38 After everyone had eaten enough, the sailors threw bags of wheat off the ship into the sea. Then the ship was not so heavy." 
Acts27:39 In the morning, the ship was near to some land, but the sailors did not recognize the place. They saw a place on the shore where there was a lot of sand. They wanted to drive the ship onto the sand." 
Acts27:40 So the sailors cut the ropes which had the anchors on them. They left the anchors there in the sea. They also removed the ropes which had tied the rudders. Then they raised the sail at the front of the ship. Now the wind could blow the ship straight towards the shore. 
Acts27:41 But there was a place in the sea where the water was not deep. The ship sailed onto the sand in this place and it stayed there. The front of the ship pushed into the sand and it could not move. The sea was very strong and it hit against the back of the ship. As a result, the back of the ship broke into pieces." 
Acts27:42 The soldiers decided to kill the prisoners that were on the ship. They did not want these men to swim to the land and escape. 
Acts27:43 But the army officer wanted to save Paul. So he commanded the soldiers not to kill the men. Instead he said, ‘Everyone who can swim, jump into the water first. Then swim to the shore." 
Acts27:44 You other people must follow them. Hold on to pieces of wood, or pieces of the ship.’ In this way all of us got safely out of the sea and we arrived on the land." 
Acts28:1 So then we were on the shore and we were all safe. We discovered that the island was called Malta. 
Acts28:2 The people who lived on the island were very kind to us. Rain was falling and the weather was cold. So the people lit a fire and they helped all of us. 
Acts28:3 Paul picked up some small branches to put on the fire. When he did this, a dangerous snake came out from among the sticks. It had felt the heat from the fire. The snake bit Paul's hand and it held on to it." 
Acts28:4 The people who lived on the island saw the snake. They saw that it was hanging from Paul's hand. So they said to each other, ‘We know now that this man murdered someone. He did not die in the sea but now the snake will kill him. The god who punishes people for the bad things that they do will not let him live.’" 
Acts28:5 Then Paul waved his hand about so that the snake fell off into the fire. The snake had not hurt Paul in any way. 
Acts28:6 So the people watched Paul carefully. They thought that his body would become very sick. They thought that he might die suddenly. They waited for a long time. But they did not see anything bad happen to Paul. So then they thought something different about Paul. They said, ‘This man is certainly a god!’" 
Acts28:7 There was an important officer who ruled the island. He was called Publius. He had some fields near to the shore where we had made the fire. He was very kind to us. He asked us to stay in his house. We stayed there for three days. 
Acts28:8 Publius's father was lying in bed because he was ill. His body was hot and he was very sick. Paul went into his room to see him. Paul prayed for him and he put his hands on the man's head. As a result, the man became well again." 
Acts28:9 After Paul did this, the other sick people on the island came to him. He caused them also to become well again." 
Acts28:10 The people gave us many gifts. Later, we got ready to leave the island on another ship. People gave us the things that we needed for the journey." 
Acts28:11 When we left Malta, we had been there for three months. We got on a ship that was called ‘The Twin Gods’. It had come from Alexandria and it had stayed in Malta during the winter." 
Acts28:12 We sailed across the sea and we arrived at the city of Syracuse. We stayed there for three days. 
Acts28:13 We left Syracuse and we sailed to the city of Rhegium. The next day, the wind began to blow from the south, so we sailed more quickly. The day after that, we arrived at the town of Puteoli." 
Acts28:14 We found some believers there. They asked us to stay with them for one week. After this we travelled to Rome. 
Acts28:15 The believers in Rome had heard about us. So they came out of the city to meet us at ‘The Market of Appius’ and ‘The Three Hotels’. When Paul saw the believers, he thanked God for them. He was very happy that they had come to meet him." 
Acts28:15 The believers in Rome had heard about us. So they came out of the city to meet us at ‘The Market of Appius’ and ‘The Three Hotels’. When Paul saw the believers, he thanked God for them. He was very happy that they had come to meet him." 
Acts28:16 When we arrived in Rome, the Roman officer said to Paul, ‘You may live in a house by yourself, but a soldier will be there as a guard to watch you.’" 
Acts28:17 After three days, Paul asked the leaders of the Jews in Rome to meet with him. When they met together, Paul said to them, ‘Friends, I am a Jew, as you are. I tell you that I have never done anything bad against our people. I have always obeyed the rules that our ancestors gave to us. But the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem took hold of me. They gave me to the Roman rulers so that they would judge me." 
Acts28:18 The Roman rulers asked me questions about what I had done. They discovered that I had not done anything wrong. There was no reason that they should kill me. So they wanted to let me go free. 
Acts28:19 But the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem did not agree with that. So then I asked the Roman rulers to send me here to Rome. I wanted Caesar himself to judge me. That was the only thing that I could do. I did not want to say anything bad against my own people. 
Acts28:20 That is why I want to talk with you now. I want to tell you why I am a prisoner here. It is because I believe in the one that God promised to send to us who are Jews.’ 
Acts28:21 The Jewish leaders said to Paul, ‘We have not received any letters about you from Judea. Our Jewish friends who have come here from Judea have not told us this news. They have not said anything bad about you." 
Acts28:21 The Jewish leaders said to Paul, ‘We have not received any letters about you from Judea. Our Jewish friends who have come here from Judea have not told us this news. They have not said anything bad about you." 
Acts28:22 But we know that people everywhere are saying bad things about your new group. So we would like you to tell us your ideas.’ 
Acts28:23 So the Jewish leaders in Rome chose a day to meet again with Paul. When that day arrived, a large number of Jews came to the house where Paul was staying. Paul talked to them from the morning until the evening. He explained his message about the kingdom of God. He showed them what Moses and the other prophets had written in the Bible. He tried to show them that Jesus was God's special Messiah." 
Acts28:24 Some of them believed that Paul's message was true. But other Jews who were there refused to believe him. 
Acts28:25 So they argued with each other about Paul's message. When they began to leave the house, Paul said, ‘The Holy Spirit spoke a true message to your ancestors. He gave this message to Isaiah, the prophet:" 
Acts28:26 “Go and say to this people, ‘You will listen and listen, but you will not understand. You will look and look, but you will not see anything.’" 
Acts28:27 These people do not want to understand. They are like people who have shut their ears. They are like people who have shut their eyes. If they did want to look, then they would really see. If they did want to listen, then they would really hear. They would understand my message. They would turn back to obey me. Then I would forgive them and I would make them well.” ’" 
Acts28:28 Paul then said to the Jews there, ‘You do not want to listen to God's message. But the Gentiles will listen! They will understand how God will save them.’" 
Acts28:29 [After Paul had said this, the Jews left. They were still arguing with each other.]" 
Acts28:30 Paul lived in a house in Rome for two years. He paid money to live in the house. Many people came to visit him there. He was very happy to see them all. 
Acts28:31 He told people clearly about the kingdom of God. He taught them about the Lord Jesus Christ. He was not afraid to do this and nobody tried to stop him. 
Romans1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. I am a servant of Christ Jesus. God chose me to be his apostle. He sent me to tell his good news to people." 
Romans1:2 God promised this good news long ago, before it happened. His prophets wrote about it in the Bible." 
Romans1:3 This good news is about God's Son, who is Jesus Christ, our Lord. Jesus was born as a human baby, a descendant of King David. But after Jesus died, God's Holy Spirit raised him to make him alive again. In this way God showed clearly that Jesus was his powerful Son." 
Romans1:4  
Romans1:5 Because of Jesus Christ, God has been very kind to us. He has chosen us to serve him as his apostles. We tell his message to people from all countries, to bring Jesus honour. We want many people to trust him and obey him." 
Romans1:6 You Christians in Rome are also among those people! God has chosen you to belong to Jesus Christ. 
Romans1:7 So I am writing to all you Christians who are in Rome. God loves you and he has chosen you to be his own people. I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. I pray that they will give you peace in your minds." 
Romans1:8 First, because of what Jesus Christ has done for us, I thank my God for all of you. Everywhere in the world, people are talking about how you trust in Jesus Christ." 
Romans1:9 God is the one that I serve with my spirit. I tell people the message about his Son, which is good news. God himself knows that I pray for you all the time." 
Romans1:10 Every time that I pray for you, I ask God for a chance that I might visit you soon. I pray that he will make it possible if that is what he wants." 
Romans1:11 I want very much to come and visit you. Then I can give you some gift from God's Spirit. That will help you to be strong in your spirits. 
Romans1:12 We can help each other in this way, because both you and I trust Christ." 
Romans1:13 My Christian friends, I have often tried often to visit you. I want you to know that. But until now, something has always stopped me. I want to see the results of my work among you. I have already been able to help other Gentiles in this way." 
Romans1:14 It is my duty to tell God's message to all people. I must tell his good news to people who have learned many things, and to those who have never been to school. I must tell it to people who are wise and to those who are not very clever." 
Romans1:15 Because of that, I want very much to tell God's good news also to you people who live in Rome." 
Romans1:16 I am not ashamed to tell people the good news. God uses that good news to show his great power. He uses it to save all people who believe in Jesus Christ. First, God saves Jews who believe the good news. And he also saves all Gentiles who believe." 
Romans1:17 The good news explains how God accepts people as right with himself. He does this when they believe in Christ. It is only because of their faith. Nothing else. This is what was written in the Bible long ago: ‘The righteous person will live because he trusts God.’ 
Romans1:18 God in heaven shows that he is angry. He is angry because people do not respect him and they do bad things. Because they continue to do those bad things, they refuse to accept God's true message." 
Romans1:19 They should understand what God is like, because God himself has shown it to them clearly." 
Romans1:20 Ever since God made the world, he has been showing people clearly about himself. We cannot see God. But the things that he has made show us clearly what he is like. We can understand his great power that continues for ever. We can know that he is the true God. So there is no reason for anyone to say, ‘We do not know anything about God.’" 
Romans1:21 Those people did know about God. But they did not respect him as God, and they did not thank him. They did not even think clearly any more. Their minds became confused and they did not understand God's message." 
Romans1:22 They said that they were wise, but really they became fools." 
Romans1:23 They refused to worship the great God who can never die. Instead, they worshipped idols that were like people who must die. They also made idols that looked like birds, animals and snakes, and they worshipped them." 
Romans1:24 So God let those people do all the bad things that they wanted to do. God let those disgusting things rule their lives. As a result, they did bad things with each other's bodies. They did things that people should be ashamed to do." 
Romans1:25 They refused to believe the true things about God. Instead, they chose to believe lies. They worshipped things that God has made and they became servants of those things. But they refused to worship God himself who made those things! Everyone should praise him for ever! Amen. This is true." 
Romans1:26 Because those people turned against God, he let those bad things rule their lives. They strongly wanted to do things that they should be ashamed about. Even the women stopped having sex in a way which is proper. Instead, they began to have sex with other women, which is not proper." 
Romans1:27 Also, the men stopped having sex with women. Instead, they strongly wanted to have sex with other men. Men did bad things with other men that should make them ashamed. Because they did such wrong things, they received in their own bodies the punishment that was right." 
Romans1:28 Those people decided that they did not need to know anything about God. So God let their minds become spoiled. As a result, they do bad things that people ought not to do." 
Romans1:29 They only think about wrong and bad things that they want to do. They want many things for themselves. They want to hurt other people. They are always jealous of other people. They kill people. They quarrel and fight with people. They are not honest or kind. They say silly things about other people. 
Romans1:30 They tell lies about people. They hate God. They insult other people. They are proud and they say how important they are. They think of many ways to do bad things. They do not obey their parents. 
Romans1:31 They do not understand what is right. They do not do what they have promised to do. They do not love anyone and they are not kind to anyone. 
Romans1:32 These people understand God's message about what is right. They know that people who do bad things like this deserve to die. But they still continue to do those bad things. They are even happy when other people do those bad things too. 
Romans2:1 So I say this to each one of you: Do not judge other people. If you decide that someone else has done a bad thing, remember that you also do the same bad things. So when you judge someone else you are saying that you are also guilty of the same thing. You deserve the same punishment!" 
Romans2:2 When God judges people, he does it in a way that is true. He is right to punish people who do those kind of bad things." 
Romans2:3 Remember that you are only human. Do you still judge people who do bad things, but you do those same bad things yourself? Then God will certainly punish you and you will not go free." 
Romans2:4 God is very kind and patient with us. He waits a long time before he punishes us. Do not forget that! You should understand that God is giving you a chance to change. He waits patiently, so that you may turn away from wrong things." 
Romans2:5 But you refuse to change the way that you live. You are not sorry about the wrong things that you have done. As a result, you will cause God to punish you even more on the day when he judges everyone. On that day, he will show how angry he is against people who do bad things. Everyone will know that he judges people in a right way." 
Romans2:6 God will give each person what they deserve for the things that they have done. 
Romans2:7 Some people continue patiently to do good things. They want to do what is right so that God will praise them. They want to live the kind of life which death will not spoil. God will give people like that life which continues for ever. 
Romans2:8 But other people think only about themselves. They refuse to obey God's true message. Instead, they continue to do things that are wrong. God will show people like that that he is very angry with them." 
Romans2:9 God will punish everyone who does evil things. He will do that first to the Jews, and he will do it also to the Gentiles. There will be much trouble and pain for every person who does bad things." 
Romans2:10 But God will praise every person who does good things. They will receive honour and they will have peace in their minds. He will do that first for the Jews, and he will do it also for the Gentiles." 
Romans2:11 God is always fair when he judges people, whoever they are." 
Romans2:12 The Gentiles do not have God's Law that he gave to Moses. If Gentiles do wrong things, God will punish them. But he will not use his Law when he judges the Gentiles. But the Jews do have God's Law. So, if Jews do wrong things, God will use his Law to judge them. The Law will show that they have done wrong things." 
Romans2:13 Who does God accept as right with himself? It is those people who obey his Law. It is not the people who only know his Law but do not obey it. 
Romans2:14 The Gentiles do not have God's Law. But they may still do the right things that the Law teaches. They do right things because of what they themselves think is right. In that way they are showing that they have a certain law in their minds, even though they do not know God's Law." 
Romans2:15 Those people show that they know what is right. It is as if God has written his Law deep inside them. Their thoughts tell them the difference between what is right and what is wrong. Sometimes their thoughts say: ‘You did something that is wrong.’ And sometimes their thoughts say: ‘You did what is right.’ 
Romans2:16 That is the message that I tell people. God knows everything that people think secretly. One day he will judge everyone. He has given Jesus Christ the authority to do that. 
Romans2:17 Do you say that you are a Jew? Maybe you trust in the Law that God gave to Moses. You are proud that you belong to God. 
Romans2:18 You know what God wants people to do. His Law teaches you what is good and right. 
Romans2:19 You are sure that you yourself can teach other people about God. You think that you can be like a guide for blind people. You think that you can give light to people who are in the dark. 
Romans2:20 You are sure that you can teach fools and people who do not know very much. You know that God's Law tells you everything that is true. Because you know so much, you think that you can be a great teacher!" 
Romans2:21 So you teach other people, do you? But do you teach yourself? You tell other people, ‘Do not rob anyone.’ But maybe you yourself rob other people." 
Romans2:22 You say, ‘People must not have sex with anyone who is not their wife or their husband.’ But maybe you yourself have sex in a wrong way. You say that you hate idols. But do you rob places where people worship idols?" 
Romans2:23 You are proud that you know God's Law. But you do not obey that Law. As a result, you do not give honour to God." 
Romans2:24 This is written in the Bible: ‘Because of you Jews, the Gentiles are insulting God.’" 
Romans2:25 As a Jewish man, you are proud that someone has circumcised you. And circumcision does help you, if you obey God's Law in your life. But if you do not obey God's Law, then circumcision is worth nothing. You have become like a Gentile that nobody has ever circumcised." 
Romans2:26 But a Gentile may obey what God's Law teaches. Then he has shown that he belongs to God even though nobody has circumcised him. 
Romans2:27 As a result, even Gentiles will show that you who are Jews are wrong. God's Law was written to help you Jews. They circumcised you to show that you belong to God. But if you refuse to obey God's Law, then God will punish you. The Gentiles who do obey God's Law will show that God is right to punish you." 
Romans2:28 Not everyone who seems to be a Jew is a true Jew who belongs to God. God does not accept a man just because someone has circumcised him in his body. 
Romans2:29 No! A true Jew is someone who belongs to God in his spirit. He belongs to God because God's Spirit has changed his life. It is as if God has circumcised him in his spirit. The rules of God's Law cannot do that work in a person. God will praise a person like that, even if other people do not praise him." 
Romans3:1 So someone may ask, ‘Does it help a person if they are a Jew, rather than a Gentile? Does it help a person if someone has circumcised them?’" 
Romans3:2 Yes, it helps in many ways. The first is that God chose to give his messages to the Jewish people." 
Romans3:3 But you might say, ‘Some Jews did not believe God's messages as they should have done. Because of that, maybe God will not help them, as he said he would do.’" 
Romans3:4 No, certainly it does not mean that! God is always faithful. He will always say what is true, even if everyone in the world should tell lies. This is what is written in the Bible: ‘People will know that what you say is true. If people judge you, it will always be clear that you are right.’" 
Romans3:5 Some people might say, ‘The wrong things that we do show more clearly that God is always right. So perhaps God is wrong to punish us.’ That is a human way to talk." 
Romans3:6 It is completely wrong! God always decides what is right and fair. That is why he is able to judge everyone in the world. 
Romans3:7 Someone might also say, ‘When I tell lies, that shows how great and good God is. My lies show more clearly that God always says what is true. So God should not say that I am a bad person. He should not punish me.’" 
Romans3:8 But if that is true, you could also say, ‘We should do more and more bad things. Then something good will happen as a result.’ Some people even say that is the message which I teach. But if they say that, they are insulting me. It is right that God should punish those people." 
Romans3:9 So, what do we learn from that? We cannot say that we Jews are in less danger than other people. No, certainly we cannot say that! I have said already that sin has power over everyone. That is true for both Jews and Gentiles." 
Romans3:10 This is written in the Bible: ‘There is nobody who is right with God. There is not even one person who is like that. 
Romans3:11 There is nobody who understands what is true. There is nobody who wants to know God. 
Romans3:12 Everyone has turned away from God. All people have become completely bad. Nobody does what is good or kind. There is not even one person who is like that. 
Romans3:13 Bad words come out of their mouths, like a bad smell from a grave. They tell lies all the time, so that they deceive people. The things that they say hurt people, like a snake's poison." 
Romans3:14 They are always saying bad things against people, because they want to cause trouble for them." 
Romans3:15 They hurry to kill people. 
Romans3:16 Everywhere they go, they destroy things. They make people very sad." 
Romans3:17 They have never known how to live in peace. 
Romans3:18 They refuse to respect God in any way.’ 
Romans3:19 We know that God's Law belongs to the Jews. God told them to obey everything that his Law teaches. As a result, nobody can say: ‘I am not guilty.’ Everybody in the world must stand in front of God and he will judge them." 
Romans3:20 Nobody can become right with God because they obey the Law's commands. Instead, God's Law shows people clearly the wrong things that they have done." 
Romans3:21 But now we know how to become right with God. God has shown us the way that he will accept people as right with himself. This is not part of the Law that he gave to Moses. But God's Law and the messages of his prophets have told us about it. 
Romans3:22 God accepts people as right with himself because Jesus Christ did what God wanted. God accepts every person who believes in Christ. It is the same way for everyone, whether they are Jews or Gentiles." 
Romans3:23 All people have done wrong things. Nobody is as good as God in his glory wants them to be. 
Romans3:24 But because God is very kind, he accepts us as right with himself. That is God's gift to us. Jesus Christ has paid for our sins so that we have become free." 
Romans3:25 God showed clearly that Jesus Christ died on the cross as a sacrifice for our sins. God forgives us if we trust in Jesus and the blood of his sacrifice. God did this to show clearly that he is always right and fair. In past times, God was patient. He did not punish people who did wrong things." 
Romans3:26 He did this to show us today that he is completely right and fair. He accepts people as right with himself if they believe in Jesus. 
Romans3:27 So nobody should boast about themselves. Nobody becomes right with God because they have done good things. No! God accepts someone only if they believe in Jesus Christ. 
Romans3:28 So this is what we are saying: A person becomes right with God if they trust in Christ. It is not because they do the good things which God's Law teaches. 
Romans3:29 God is not God only for Jewish people. He is also God for the Gentiles. Yes! He is the God for all people. 
Romans3:30 There is only one God. He will accept Jews as right with himself if they believe in Christ. He will also accept other people as right with himself if they believe in Christ. 
Romans3:31 What does this show us about God's Law which he gave to Moses? When we say that all people need to believe in Jesus, does that mean that God's Law has no purpose? No! When we believe in Jesus, we are showing the true purpose of God's Law." 
Romans4:1 Abraham was the ancestor of all of us who are Jews. Think about what he discovered. 
Romans4:2 God did not accept Abraham as right with him because Abraham had done good things. If God had done that, then Abraham would have been able to boast about himself. But he could not boast to God." 
Romans4:3 Remember what the Bible tells us. It says: ‘Abraham believed God. As a result, God accepted Abraham as right with him.’" 
Romans4:4 When a person works to get money, that money is not a gift. It is what that person deserves to receive as a result of his work." 
Romans4:5 But someone who believes in God does not work to cause God to accept him. God accepts that person because of their faith. God says that people who have turned away from him are right with him, if they now trust him. That is God's gift to them." 
Romans4:6 David also wrote about the same thing. He describes those people that God has accepted as right with himself. God has not accepted them because they have done good things. It is his gift to them. David tells us how happy people like that are. 
Romans4:7 David says: ‘The people that God has forgiven are truly happy. They have done wrong things, but he has forgiven them." 
Romans4:8 A person is truly happy when the Lord God accepts him. The Lord does not think about that person's sin any more.’ 
Romans4:9 God does this for all people, both Jews and Gentiles. All people can be happy like this, when God accepts them. As we have said, Abraham believed God. As a result, God accepted Abraham as right with him." 
Romans4:10 Someone circumcised Abraham to show that he belonged to God's people. Think about the time when God accepted Abraham. Did it happen before someone circumcised him, or after that? We know that it was before anyone circumcised him!" 
Romans4:11 Abraham's circumcision was a mark on his body to show that God had already accepted him. God had accepted Abraham because Abraham believed in him. This shows that Abraham is like a father to everyone that God has accepted. Like Abraham, God has accepted them because they have believed in him. It is not important that nobody has circumcised them." 
Romans4:12 But Abraham is also like the father of all Jews who believe in God. Someone has circumcised those Jews, but they have also copied Abraham's example. They have believed in God, as Abraham believed before anyone had circumcised him." 
Romans4:13 God promised Abraham and his descendants that the world would belong to them one day. God did not promise this because Abraham obeyed any rules. God promised it because Abraham believed in him. That is why God accepted Abraham as right with him. 
Romans4:14 People cannot receive what God has promised because they obey rules. If they could get it like that, faith in God would be worth nothing. And what God has promised would be worth nothing." 
Romans4:15 The rules in God's Law say that God will punish people who do not obey those rules. But without any rules, there is nothing for people to obey." 
Romans4:16 So God gives us his promise as a gift, because he is very kind. We receive it when we trust him. If we believe in God like Abraham did, then God accepts us. That is God's promise to all of Abraham's family. If we believe in God, we can call Abraham our ancestor. We can all receive what God has promised. It is not only for those who have Moses' Law to obey." 
Romans4:17 In the Bible, God said to Abraham, ‘I have chosen you to become the ancestor of many nations of people.’ Abraham believed in God's promise, so God calls him our ancestor. God is the one who causes dead people to become alive again. He speaks about things that are not yet there as if they were already there." 
Romans4:18 Abraham continued to trust God. He hoped to receive what God had promised. He continued to hope even when he had no good reason to hope. That is why he became the ancestor of many nations. It happened just like God had said: ‘You will have very many descendants.’ 
Romans4:19 Abraham was about 100 years old. His body was already so old that it was nearly dead. His wife, Sarah, was unable to have children. Abraham understood all that, but he did not stop trusting God." 
Romans4:20 He never stopped believing what God had promised. Instead, he believed in God more strongly. He gave honour to God." 
Romans4:21 Abraham was sure that God was able to do what he had promised to do. 
Romans4:22 So we see that it is true: because Abraham believed God, God accepted Abraham as right with him." 
Romans4:23 Think about those words, ‘God accepted him as right.’ They are not only speaking about Abraham." 
Romans4:24 They are written in the Bible to help us too. If we believe in God, he will accept us as right with him. God raised our Lord Jesus to become alive again after his death." 
Romans4:25 God let people kill Jesus on the cross because of the wrong things that we have done. Then God raised Jesus from death, to show that he would accept us as right with him." 
Romans5:1 So we see that God has accepted us as right because we trust him. As a result, we have peace with God, because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done for us." 
Romans5:2 Because we trust him, we know that God has blessed us in a way that we do not deserve. That makes us strong in our lives. We also are sure that we will share God's glory in heaven. So we are very happy." 
Romans5:3 We are happy even when we suffer. That is because we know that this helps us to become patient and strong. 
Romans5:4 And when we remain strong, we show that we trust God. When we trust God like that, it causes us to hope for God's help." 
Romans5:5 And when we hope like that, we will not become disappointed. This is because we know that God loves us very much. God has given his Holy Spirit to be with us. The Holy Spirit causes us to know God's love very well." 
Romans5:6 At one time we were weak and we could not help ourselves. Then, at the right time, Christ died to save us. He died on behalf of people who have turned away from God." 
Romans5:7 Nobody will agree to die on behalf of another person, even if that person has done what is right. Maybe someone might be brave enough to die on behalf of a person who is very good." 
Romans5:8 But God has shown us how much he loves us. Even when we still did not obey God, Christ died on our behalf." 
Romans5:9 Because Christ died on the cross, God has accepted us as right with himself. So we certainly know that Christ will save us when God judges everyone. Because of Jesus, God will not be angry with us and punish us." 
Romans5:10 While we were still God's enemies, God's Son died on our behalf. As a result, we became God's friends. So, now that we are God's friends, his Son will certainly save us. Christ will save us because he is alive again." 
Romans5:11 But that is not everything! We are very happy now because of what God has done for us. Our Lord Jesus Christ has made this possible. It is because of him that we have now become God's friends. 
Romans5:12 It was because of one man, Adam, that sin came into the world. Death was the result of Adam's sin. Because of that, death came to all people, because everyone failed to obey God." 
Romans5:13 Before God gave his Law to Moses, people did wrong things. Sin was already there in the world. But at that time, God did not say that people were guilty, because there was no law for them to obey." 
Romans5:14 But death still ruled all people, from the time when Adam lived until the time when Moses lived. Everyone died, even those who did not fail in the same way that Adam failed. Adam shows us something about God's Messiah who would come at a future time." 
Romans5:15 But they are not the same. Adam was the man who did not obey what God said to him. Jesus Christ is the man who brought God's free gift to people. Adam was just one person but many people died because of his sin. But God has shown in a greater way that he is very kind to people. Very many people have received God's gift because of one man, Jesus Christ. So Christ has been very kind to many people!" 
Romans5:16 Also, God's gift is different from the result of Adam's sin. Adam chose not to obey God once and punishment came as a result. But the result of God's gift is greater. People have done many wrong things, not only one wrong thing. But God accepts them as right with him. That shows how kind God is!" 
Romans5:17 One man, Adam, did not obey God, and death began to rule everyone as a result. But what the one man, Jesus Christ, did is much greater! Because of him, people can become right with God. They receive that great gift from God because he is very good and very kind. Because of what Jesus Christ has done, those people will rule like kings in their lives." 
Romans5:18 So God's punishment came to all people because of that one wrong thing that Adam did. But the one thing that Christ did makes people free. God accepts all people because of that one good thing that Christ did. Those people receive true life from God. 
Romans5:19 One man did not obey God and, as a result, many people became guilty because of their sins. But, because one man did obey God, many people will become right with God." 
Romans5:20 God gave his Law to Moses to show more clearly that people were doing wrong things. But when people did more and more wrong things, God continued to be kind in more and more ways." 
Romans5:21 We see that sin ruled people's lives and brought death to them. But God's kind gift makes people right with him, and that is what now rules their lives. As a result, they will have life with God for ever, because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done." 
Romans6:1 Someone might say, ‘Perhaps we should continue to do wrong things. Then God can be kind to us in more and more ways.’" 
Romans6:2 No! Certainly we should not do that! Sin does not rule our lives any longer. That old life is dead! So it is not right that we should continue to do wrong things. 
Romans6:3 Remember what our baptism shows. When they baptized us, it shows that we are united with Christ Jesus. It also shows that, because Christ died, our old life also died." 
Romans6:4 Our baptism shows that they buried us, just like they buried Christ after his death. It is as if we died with him and they buried us with him. Because of that, God will also raise us, just as he raised Christ from death. God the Father is so great and powerful that he raised Christ to a new life. That means that we also can live our lives in a new way." 
Romans6:5 We have become united with Christ, and we have died like he died. Because of that, we will also be united with him in his new life. Just like Christ rose, we also will rise to a new life." 
Romans6:6 We know that God has caused our old nature to die with Christ on the cross. This happened so that God could make us free from the power of sin in our lives. We are no longer like slaves who have sin as their master. 
Romans6:7 Sin no longer has any authority over someone who has died. 
Romans6:8 So, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him." 
Romans6:9 God raised Christ, so that he became alive again after his death. Because of that, we know that he will never die again. Death no longer has any authority over him." 
Romans6:10 When Christ died, he died once to destroy the power of sin for ever. Now that he is alive again, he lives to serve God." 
Romans6:11 So you also should think about yourselves in the same way. Sin has no power over you, as if you were dead. In your new life, you live to serve God, because you belong to Christ Jesus." 
Romans6:12 So do not let sin rule your life in this world. Do not do the wrong things that your body wants to do. 
Romans6:13 Sin can use your body to do wicked things. So do not let any parts of your body serve sin as their master. Instead, be ready to serve God as your master. You can do that because you now have a new life. Your old life is dead. So give every part of your body to God. Then he will use you to do right things." 
Romans6:14 Sin will no longer have authority over you. The Law which God gave to Moses does not control your life. God's grace now controls your life. 
Romans6:15 Someone might say, ‘So we have a new life because God is kind to us. God's Law that he gave to Moses does not rule us any more. Then maybe we should continue to do wrong things. It will not make any difference.’ No, that is not true!" 
Romans6:16 Remember this: when you agree to serve someone as a slave, you have to obey that person as your master. You may choose to serve sin as your master. If you do that, you will die. Or you may choose to obey God. If you do that, you will live in a way that is right." 
Romans6:17 At one time, you were slaves to sin. But then you received God's true message, and you were happy to obey it. I thank God because of that!" 
Romans6:18 As a result, God has made you free from the power of sin. You are now like slaves who serve everything that is right and good." 
Romans6:19 It is difficult for you to understand these things, because you are still weak. So I am using a human picture of slaves to help you to understand better. At one time, you agreed to serve bad things as your master. You let your body do wrong and disgusting things. You continued to do more and more bad things. So now, you must use your body to serve what is right and good. Then you will live in a good way that pleases God." 
Romans6:20 When you were slaves to sin, you did not even have to think about what was right." 
Romans6:21 You did things that you are ashamed about now. Nothing good came from them. In the end, the result of those things is death." 
Romans6:22 But now God has made you free from the power of sin. You have become God's slaves. Many good things come from that, because God is helping you to live in a good way. The result is that you will live with him for ever." 
Romans6:23 If you serve sin as your master, it will pay you with death. But if you belong to our Lord Jesus Christ, God gives you a gift! That gift is life with God for ever." 
Romans7:1 My Christian friends, you know about laws. You know that we have to obey them. The laws have authority over someone while they are still alive." 
Romans7:2 So think about this. A woman who has a husband must stay with him as long as he still lives. That is what the law says. But if her husband dies, she becomes free from that law about her marriage." 
Romans7:3 While her husband is alive, the law has authority over her. If she goes to live with another man, the law says that she has done something wrong. People will call her an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she becomes free from that law. If she then marries another man, she will not be doing anything wrong." 
Romans7:4 My friends, it is like that for you too. When Christ's body died on the cross, it is as if you also died with him. Because of that, you are no longer under the authority of God's Law. Now you are free to belong to someone else. You belong to Christ, whom God raised up after his death. As a result, we can live in a good way that will please God." 
Romans7:5 In our old lives, we did the bad things that we wanted to do. God's laws caused us to think more about sin. As a result, we used our bodies to do many wrong things. In the end, those bad things lead to death." 
Romans7:6 But now we have become free from the authority of God's Law. It is as if we have died. So those rules no longer control us. We do not still try to obey rules that someone has written down. That is the old way. Instead, we serve God in a new way. God's Spirit helps us to please him." 
Romans7:7 So someone might say, ‘ God's Law must be bad.’ No! Certainly, it is not bad! Without God's Law, I would not have known what sin really is. One rule says, ‘You must not want to take things for yourself that belong to other people.’ Without that command, I would not have known that it is wrong to want other people's things." 
Romans7:8 But the command gave sin a chance to come into my thoughts. As a result, I started to want all kinds of wrong things. If there is no law to tell us what is wrong, then sin has no power to make us guilty." 
Romans7:9 As for me, there was a time when I did not know God's laws. I was living without any law to obey. But when I learned about that command, sin now had power in my life." 
Romans7:10 As a result, I became separate from God, as if I had died. So the command that should have brought life to me brought death instead." 
Romans7:11 That command gave sin a chance to deceive me. It caused me to become separate from God. 
Romans7:12 So we understand that God's Law and its commands are completely good. They are holy, fair and good." 
Romans7:13 But someone might say, ‘This means that something good brought death to you.’ No! God's Law did not do that! It was sin that brought death to me. Sin used God's good Law to show that I was guilty. Because of that, we can see that sin is really very bad. The commands in God's Law help to show us that sin is completely bad." 
Romans7:14 We understand that God's Law is spiritual. But I am weak and human. I am like a slave that has sin as my master. 
Romans7:15 I do not understand the things that I do. I do not do the good things that I want to do. Instead, I do the things that I hate to do." 
Romans7:16 But I do not want to do those wrong things. So I am agreeing that God's Law is good. 
Romans7:17 So it is not really I myself who am doing those wrong things. Instead, sin has power in my life. It is sin that causes me to do wrong things." 
Romans7:18 I know that there is nothing good in me. I am weak and human. I want to do what is good. But I am unable to do it. 
Romans7:19 I do not do the good things that I want to do. Instead, I continue to do the bad things that I do not want to do." 
Romans7:20 So, when I do bad things that I do not want to do, it is not really I myself who do them. It is sin that causes me to do wrong things, because it has power in my life." 
Romans7:21 So I understand what is happening in me. Whenever I want to do something good, I can only choose something bad." 
Romans7:22 Deep inside myself, I really love God's laws." 
Romans7:23 So my mind tells me to obey God's laws. But my body wants to make me do something else. Every part of me fights against what my mind tells me to do. Sin has power over my body so that I am like a prisoner. 
Romans7:24 This makes me very sad! My body is leading me to death. I need someone to make me free from the power of sin over my body. 
Romans7:25 I thank God! He has made me free, because of what Jesus Christ has done. So with my mind I want to obey God's laws. But, at the same time, I serve sin as my master, because I am weak and human." 
Romans8:1 Now we know this: God has forgiven those people who are united with Christ Jesus. God will never say that they are guilty. 
Romans8:2 God's Spirit has given us a new life. God's Spirit now rules in our lives and he has made us free. Sin and death no longer have authority over us. 
Romans8:3 The Law that God gave to Moses could not make us free like that. We were too weak to obey his Law because we are human. But God has done what his Law could not do. He sent his own Son to become a person like us. His human body was like the body of people who do wrong things. God's Son died as a sacrifice to take away the punishment for our sins. In that way, God destroyed the power of sin over people who are weak and human." 
Romans8:4 God did this so that we could become right with him, as his Law commands. We can be right with God, if we live with God's Spirit as our guide. We do not do what our weak human thoughts want us to do." 
Romans8:5 Some people do what their weak human thoughts want them to do. They think about the things that will make them happy. Other people live with God's Spirit as their guide. These people think about what will make God's Spirit happy. 
Romans8:6 People who let their human thoughts rule them will die. But people who think about what God's Spirit wants will have life with God. They will have peace inside themselves. 
Romans8:7 If our weak human thoughts rule us, we become God's enemies. People like that do not want to obey God's Law. They are not even able to obey it." 
Romans8:8 People who let their weak human thoughts rule them cannot make God happy. 
Romans8:9 But you are not people who obey your weak human thoughts. Instead, you obey God's Spirit as your guide. That is true if God's Spirit is really living in you. If anyone does not have Christ's Spirit in them, that person does not belong to Christ." 
Romans8:10 But, if Christ lives in you, you have a new life because of his Spirit. Your body will die one day because of the power of sin. But your spirit lives because Christ has made you right with God." 
Romans8:11 God raised Jesus, to make him alive again after his death. Now God's Spirit lives in you. So God, who raised Christ from death, will also cause your human bodies to live again. He will do that by his Spirit who lives in you." 
Romans8:12 So, my Christian friends, we must not obey what our weak human thoughts tell us to do. We no longer have to live like that." 
Romans8:13 If you agree to live in that way, you will die. Instead, you should let God's Spirit help you with his power. Then you can stop doing the wrong things that your bodies want to do. As a result, you will have life with God." 
Romans8:14 All those people who live with God's Spirit as their guide are God's children. 
Romans8:15 The Spirit that you have received from God does not make you serve him like slaves. That would make you afraid again. No. God's Spirit causes you to become God's children. As a result, we call God ‘Abba, our Father.’" 
Romans8:16 God's Spirit himself causes us to know that we are God's children. God's Spirit and our own spirits agree together that this is true. 
Romans8:17 Because we are God's children, we also know that we will receive good things from him. Those are the things that he has promised to give to his children. Together with Christ, we will receive the things that God has kept for him. That is true if we agree to suffer as Christ did. Then we will also enjoy life in heaven as Christ does." 
Romans8:18 During this time now, we suffer. But one day God will show us all the great things he has prepared for us. That will make the trouble that we have now seem very small." 
Romans8:19 The whole universe that God has made now waits for something great to happen. Everything is waiting with hope to find out who God's children really are. 
Romans8:20 God has caused everything in the universe to lose its purpose. It did not choose to be like that. It was God who decided that it should be like that. Then it could hope for something better in a future time. 
Romans8:21 At that time, the universe will not continue to spoil. It will not become worse and worse, as it must do now. Instead, it will become free to enjoy God's great glory. That is the glory that belongs to God's children." 
Romans8:22 We know that everything in the universe still suffers now. Everything cries out in pain, like a woman who is ready to have a baby." 
Romans8:23 It is the same for us who are believers. We have received God's Spirit as the first of his gifts to us, but we also cry inside ourselves. We are waiting for the time when God will finish his great work. Then we will belong to him completely as his children. Our bodies will be free from the power of sin." 
Romans8:24 Ever since God saved us, we have continued to wait for this to happen. One day, we will receive what we have hoped for. Then we will not need to hope for it any more. Nobody continues to hope for something that he has already received." 
Romans8:25 But we continue to hope for what we do not yet see. And so, we wait for it patiently." 
Romans8:26 God's Spirit also helps us to do this. Because we are weak, we do not know how we ought to pray. But God's Spirit himself prays for us. He cries out to God on our behalf in a way that nobody could say with words." 
Romans8:27 God sees deep inside us, and he knows our thoughts. He also understands what is in the mind of his Spirit. When the Holy Spirit prays on behalf of God's people, he prays as God wants him to pray." 
Romans8:28 We know that God helps those people who love him. He uses everything that happens to them to bring something good. He does this for the people that he has chosen to serve him. 
Romans8:29 God already had these people in his thoughts from the beginning. He decided that they would become like his Son. As a result, his Son would have many younger brothers and sisters." 
Romans8:30 God had already chosen those people to be his children. Because of that, he called them to come to him. He accepted those people as right with himself. And those that he accepted he also caused to share his glory." 
Romans8:31 So, because of all the things that God does for us, we can certainly say this: if God is working on our behalf, nobody can do anything against us." 
Romans8:32 God did not even keep his own Son safe. Instead, he gave his Son to die on behalf of all of us. So we know that he will also give us everything else that we need." 
Romans8:33 Nobody can accuse God's people in front of God. It is God himself who has accepted us as right with him. 
Romans8:34 So nobody can say that we are guilty. Christ Jesus himself died on our behalf. And God raised him to become alive again after his death. Now he sits at God's right side in heaven. Christ himself prays to God on our behalf. 
Romans8:35 Christ will always continue to love us. Nothing can stop that! We may have trouble. Things may make us sad or afraid. Cruel people may do bad things to us. We may have no food or no clothes. There may be great danger. People may even try to kill us. But none of these things can stop Christ's love for us. 
Romans8:36 As it says in the Bible: ‘Because we are your people, God, people try to kill us all the time. They think that we are like sheep, and we are ready to be killed.’" 
Romans8:37 Because God loves us, none of these troubles can ever beat us. He makes us win against them." 
Romans8:38 I am sure of this. Nothing can stop God from loving us. Death cannot do that. Life cannot do that. Angels cannot do that, nor can demons do that. Nothing that happens to us now, or that will happen in the future can do that. No powerful spirits can do that. Nothing that is high above the world can do that, nor anything that is deep down below the ground. Nothing else in the whole universe can stop God from loving us. Because of our Lord Christ Jesus, we know how much God loves us." 
Romans8:39  
Romans9:1 What I am telling you is true. I speak as someone who belongs to Christ. I am not telling lies. God's Holy Spirit rules my thoughts and I am sure that I am right. 
Romans9:2 I tell you this. Deep inside myself, I am always very sad and upset about the Jewish people." 
Romans9:3 I belong to the same family as they do. They are my own people. I really want them to believe in Christ too. If it would help them, I would even ask God to curse me. I would ask him to make me separate from Christ." 
Romans9:4 They are Israelites. God chose them to belong to him as his own children. He showed them his great glory. He made covenants with them and he gave his Law to them. He showed them how they should worship him. He promised them many good things. 
Romans9:5 It was their ancestors that God chose as his people many years ago. And Christ himself, as a man, was born to an Israelite family. Christ is God, who rules over all things. We should praise him for ever! This is true! Amen." 
Romans9:6 God promised good things to Israel's people. But I am not saying that God's promises failed. It is clear that not all of Israel's people are God's true people. 
Romans9:7 Not all of them are true descendants of Abraham. God told Abraham, ‘It is only Isaac that I will call the father of your descendants.’" 
Romans9:8 This means that not all of Abraham's children are really God's children. It is only those children who were born as a result of God's promise. They are the people that God calls true descendants. 
Romans9:9 This is what God promised to Abraham: ‘At this time next year I will come back. Then Sarah, your wife, will have a son.’" 
Romans9:10 Remember this too: later, Isaac's wife, Rebekah, gave birth to twins. Those two sons had the same father, who was our ancestor, Isaac." 
Romans9:11 And God spoke to Rebekah before her sons were born. God spoke before the boys had done anything either good or bad. God did this to show clearly that he himself was choosing one child. He was not choosing someone because of what that person had done. He himself decided which one he would choose. 
Romans9:12 God said to Rebekah, ‘The older son will serve the younger son.’" 
Romans9:13 This is written in the Bible: ‘I loved Jacob, but I hated Esau.’" 
Romans9:14 Because of this, someone might say that God is not fair. No! We should never say that!" 
Romans9:15 Remember that God said to Moses, ‘I will be kind to whoever I choose to be kind to. I will feel sorry for whoever I choose to feel sorry for.’" 
Romans9:16 So then, it is God who decides these things. It is not because of what people want. It is not because of what people do. It is because God chooses to be kind." 
Romans9:17 The Bible tells us what God said to Pharaoh: ‘This is why I caused you to be king of Egypt. My purpose is to show how powerful I am. As a result, people everywhere will know that I am great.’" 
Romans9:18 So we see this: God is kind to some people and he forgives them. But he causes some people, like Pharaoh, to turn against him. He chooses what he will do with each person." 
Romans9:19 One of you might say to me, ‘God always does what he wants to do. Nobody can stand against him. So God should not say that people have done wrong things.’" 
Romans9:20 But you are only human. God has made you. You have no authority to speak against God like that. A pot cannot speak against the person who made it! It cannot ask him, ‘Why did you make me like this?’" 
Romans9:21 A potter can choose to make any kind of pot. He can use the same piece of clay to make two different pots. One of the pots may be for special parties. The other pot is for dirty things. 
Romans9:22 What does that teach us about God? Some people are like pots that are ready for God to destroy. God is angry with people like that. He is ready to show his power against them. But he has chosen to wait patiently. He keeps his anger for later. 
Romans9:23 Other people are like valuable pots that God has chosen to make. God wants to be kind to people like that. He wants to use them to show people how great he is. He has prepared them to be with him for a special party in heaven. 
Romans9:24 We are those people! God has chosen us to be his people. It is not only Jews that he has chosen. He has also chosen Gentiles. 
Romans9:25 God says this in the book of Hosea: ‘I will say to people who were not my people, “Now you are my people.” I will say to people that I did not love, “I love you.” ’" 
Romans9:26 ‘God had said to them, “You are not my people.” In the same place where he said that, people will now call them “Children of God who lives for ever.” ’" 
Romans9:27 Also, Isaiah, God's prophet, said this about Israel's people: ‘There are so many of Israel's people, nobody can count them. They are as many as the bits of sand on the shore of the sea. But God will save only a few of them." 
Romans9:28 The Lord God will finish his work quickly. He has warned his people what he will do. And he will punish them completely.’ 
Romans9:29 Isaiah had already said this: ‘The Almighty Lord has let some of our children live. If he had not done that, no descendants would remain. We would have become like the people in Sodom and Gomorrah.’" 
Romans9:30 So, we must think about what all this means. The Gentiles were not trying to become right with God. But some of them have now become right with him. God has accepted them as right, because they have believed in Jesus Christ." 
Romans9:31 Israel's people tried to find a law that would make them right with God. But they failed to become right with God. 
Romans9:32 They failed because they refused to believe in Christ. Instead, they were trying to do certain things so that God would accept them. Because of that they fell to the ground. Their feet hit the stone which causes people to fall." 
Romans9:33 It says this in the Bible: ‘Look, I am putting a special stone in Zion. That stone will cause people to fall to the ground. It is a rock that will make them fall down. But anyone who believes in him will never become disappointed.’" 
Romans10:1 My Christian friends, I truly want God to save Israel's people. I pray to God that he will save them." 
Romans10:2 I can say this about them: they really want to serve God well. But they do not understand the right way to do this. 
Romans10:3 They have not understood the way that God accepts people. Instead, they have tried to make their own way to become right with God. They have refused to accept God's way that would make them right with him." 
Romans10:4 God gave his Law to Israel's people for a purpose. Now Christ has done everything that the Law commanded. So every person who believes in Christ becomes right with God. 
Romans10:5 Moses wrote about how God's Law could help people to be right with God. He said, ‘If a person obeys the rules in God's Law, then he will live by them.’" 
Romans10:6 But the Bible also speaks about another way. It shows how to become right with God because you trust him. It says: ‘Do not say to yourself, “Someone will have to go up into heaven.” ’ (That means, ‘Someone will have to bring Christ down from up there.’)" 
Romans10:7 ‘Do not say to yourself either, “Someone will have to go down into the deep hole of death.” ’ (That means, ‘Someone will have to bring Christ up from the place where dead people are.’)" 
Romans10:8 Instead, the Bible says, ‘God's message is near you. You can talk about it, and you can think about it.’ That is the same message that we are teaching to people. We tell people to believe in Jesus Christ." 
Romans10:9 The message is this: you must say clearly that Jesus is the Lord. Also, you must believe deep inside yourself that God raised him to life again after his death. Then God will save you." 
Romans10:10 God accepts people as right with him when they believe like that, deep inside themselves. And when people say clearly that Jesus is Lord, God saves them." 
Romans10:11 It says in the Bible, ‘Everyone who believes in him will not be disappointed.’" 
Romans10:12 It says ‘everyone’. There is no difference between Jews and Gentiles. There is the same Lord for all of us. He blesses everyone who asks him for help. 
Romans10:13 As it says in the Bible: ‘Everyone who calls out to the Lord God for help will be safe.’ 
Romans10:14 But people will never ask Christ to help them if they have not believed in him. And they will never believe in him if they have not heard about him. And they will not hear about him unless somebody tells God's message to them. 
Romans10:15 And nobody can tell God's message to people unless God sends them. This is written in the Bible: ‘When people arrive to tell us good news, we are happy to welcome them!’" 
Romans10:16 But not everyone who has heard the good news obeys its message. Isaiah said, ‘Lord God, it seems that nobody has believed our message.’" 
Romans10:17 So, people must hear the message before they can trust God. And people hear that message when someone tells them about Christ." 
Romans10:18 Let me ask you this: ‘Did Israel's people hear that message?’ They certainly did! The Bible says: ‘People have spoken God's message everywhere. People have heard his message in every part of the world.’ 
Romans10:19 So I ask this too: ‘When Israel's people heard God's message, did they understand it?’ First, think about what Moses wrote. God said to Israel's people: ‘I will make you jealous because of people who are not my people. I will make you angry because of people who know nothing about me.’" 
Romans10:20 Also, this is what Isaiah said very bravely: ‘God says, “Those people who were not looking for me have found me. I showed myself to people who were not even asking about me.” ’" 
Romans10:21 But Isaiah says this about Israel's people: ‘God says, “For a very long time, I have been asking my people to return to me. But they refused to obey me. They turned against me.” ’" 
Romans11:1 So I ask this: ‘Has God turned away from his people?’ No, certainly, he has not done that! I myself belong to Israel's people. I am a descendant of Abraham and I belong to Benjamin's tribe." 
Romans11:2 God chose who would be his people from the beginning. He has not turned against them now. Remember what the Bible tells us about Elijah. He wanted God to punish Israel's people. Elijah said," 
Romans11:3 ‘ Lord God, they have killed your prophets. They have destroyed the altars where people offered sacrifices to you. I am the only person alive who still serves you. And they are trying to kill me.’" 
Romans11:4 This was God's answer to Elijah: ‘There are still 7,000 men that I have kept for myself. Those men have not worshipped the false god Baal.’" 
Romans11:5 It is the same at this time too. There is a small number of Israel's people that God has chosen to trust him. He has chosen them because he is very kind. 
Romans11:6 God has not chosen them because of any good things that they have done. If that were true, it would not be his gift to them that they do not deserve." 
Romans11:7 So we can say this: Israel's people did not all find what they were looking for. Only those people that God had chosen received it. But the other people of Israel were unable to understand God's message. 
Romans11:8 It says this in the Bible: ‘God caused them to be like people who are sleeping. Even until today, their eyes cannot really see, and their ears cannot really hear.’" 
Romans11:9 King David said this: ‘I pray that their feasts will become a trap for them. Let their feasts bring them trouble and punishment. 
Romans11:10 Let their eyes become dark so that they cannot see. Let their bodies always be in pain, like slaves.’" 
Romans11:11 So now I ask this: ‘When Israel's people failed to accept God's Messiah, did they make themselves separate from God for ever?’ No, certainly that is not true! Because of their mistake, God is now saving Gentiles. He is doing that to make Israel's people become jealous." 
Romans11:12 Because of their mistake, God has blessed everyone in the world. Israel's people failed to receive what God wanted to give them. As a result, God has blessed the Gentiles with many good things. So, when the complete number of Israel's people do turn to God, the result will be even better!" 
Romans11:13 Now I am speaking to you who are Gentiles. God has sent me to be his apostle to the Gentiles. I thank him that he has given this important work to me. 
Romans11:14 I hope that my work among you Gentiles will cause my own people to be jealous. As a result, some of them may turn to God, so that he saves them." 
Romans11:15 When God turned away from Israel's people, he then accepted other people in the world as his friends. So, when God does accept Israel's people, the result will be even better! It will seem that dead people have become alive again!" 
Romans11:16 If you offer the first piece of bread to God, then all the bread will belong to God. If the roots of a tree belong to God, then the branches will also be his." 
Romans11:17 Israel's people are like an olive tree that a farmer has planted. But God has broken off some of that tree's branches. Then he has taken a branch from a wild olive tree. He has put that wild branch into the farmer's tree, to become part of that tree. You Gentiles are like the wild branch. Now you receive food from the root of the farmer's tree, to make you strong." 
Romans11:18 Israel's people are like the branches that God broke off. But you Gentiles must not think that you are better than those branches. Remember that you are still only a branch. You do not make the root strong. No, it is the root that holds you up and makes you strong." 
Romans11:19 You might say, ‘God broke off the branches so that I could become part of the tree.’" 
Romans11:20 That is true. God broke them off because they did not believe in Christ. God has accepted you as part of the tree because you do believe in Christ. So do not become proud. Instead, be afraid." 
Romans11:21 God broke off the proper branches and he did not let them stay in the tree. So, if you no longer trust him, he may not let you stay either." 
Romans11:22 So you should think about what God is like. He is kind, but he also punishes people. He has punished Israel's people, because they turned away from him. He has been kind to you. But you must continue to accept his kind gift. If you do not do that, he will break you off from his tree too." 
Romans11:23 God is able to accept Israel's people back again. If they come to believe in Christ, God will put them back as part of the tree. He is able to make them become branches of the tree again." 
Romans11:24 God cut you like branches from a wild olive tree. Then he put you into the farmer's olive tree so that you became part of it. He could do that even though that was not your own tree. So God will be able to do that for Israel's people. He can easily put them back into their own tree that they were part of before. 
Romans11:25 My Christian friends, I want to help you to understand about Israel's people. It is a secret that God has shown to us. If you really understand it, you will not be proud that you are so clever. Many of Israel's people have refused to believe in Christ. They will continue to refuse him until the complete number of Gentiles have believed." 
Romans11:26 When this has happened, God will save all Israel's people. This is written in the Bible: ‘The one who rescues will come from Zion. He will turn Jacob's people away from their sins." 
Romans11:27 And I will make this covenant with them. I will forgive them for their sins.’ 
Romans11:28 Israel's people have become God's enemies, because they have refused to believe the good news about Christ. This has happened to help you who are Gentiles. But God still loves Israel's people, because he has chosen them as his own people. That is what he promised to their ancestors." 
Romans11:29 God's thoughts about his people cannot change. He has blessed them with gifts. He has chosen them to belong to him. 
Romans11:30 In past times, you Gentiles did not obey God. But now God has been very kind to you, because Israel's people refused to obey him." 
Romans11:31 Even now, they do not obey God. As a result, God may now be kind to them, in the same way that he has been kind to you." 
Romans11:32 God says that everyone is guilty because they do not obey him. He says that so that he can be kind and he can forgive everyone. 
Romans11:33 Yes! God is very great! He has everything! He knows and he understands all things! Nobody can completely understand the things that he decides. Nobody can explain the ways in which he works. 
Romans11:34 The Bible says this: ‘Nobody knows the thoughts of the Lord God. Nobody is able to tell him what he should do.’ 
Romans11:35 ‘Nobody has ever given anything to God so that God had to pay something back to that person.’ 
Romans11:36 It is God who made all things. He also causes all things to continue. And all things are there to show how great he is. We praise him for ever! He is great! Amen. This is true! 
Romans12:1 My Christian friends, God has been very kind to us. Because of that, I really want you to serve God with your whole life. Offer your bodies to him like a sacrifice that continues to live. Serve him with everything that you have, and that will please him. That is the true way to worship God." 
Romans12:2 Do not become like the people who belong to this world. But let God completely change the way that you think, so that you live differently. Then you will understand what God wants you to do. You will know what is good. You will know what pleases God. You will know what is completely right." 
Romans12:3 God has been kind to me so that I can serve him. Because of that, I say this to every one of you: do not think that you are better than you really are. Instead, think about yourself carefully. Decide how much God has helped you to trust him. Then you will know how you should serve him." 
Romans12:4 Each part of our body works in a different way. But all the parts belong to our one body. 
Romans12:5 In the same way, we are many people, but we all belong to Christ, like one body. We also belong to each other, as the different parts of one body belong to each other." 
Romans12:6 God has been kind to us. He has given each of us different gifts so that we can serve him. God helps some people to speak his messages clearly. Those people should trust God to tell them what to say. 
Romans12:7 God helps some people to serve others. They should do that well. God helps some people to be able to teach others. Those people should teach well. 
Romans12:8 If God has helped you to make others feel strong, then you should do that. If God has helped you to share your things with others, do that seriously. If God has helped you to be a leader, do that carefully. If God has helped you to be kind to others, do that happily." 
Romans12:9 Love other people in a true way, not like a hypocrite. Hate anything that is bad. Continue to do things that are good." 
Romans12:10 Love each other truly like brothers and sisters. Be happy to give honour to other Christians. 
Romans12:11 Do not be lazy, but always work hard. Serve the Lord well." 
Romans12:12 Be happy, because you can trust God to do what he says. Be patient when you suffer. Always continue to pray." 
Romans12:13 When God's people need anything, share what you have with them. Always be happy to welcome people into your home." 
Romans12:14 Ask God to bless people who cause trouble for you. Yes, do not curse them, but bless them!" 
Romans12:15 If you are with someone who is happy, you should be happy too. If you are with someone who is sad, you should be sad too." 
Romans12:16 Always try to be friends with other people. Do not be proud. Agree to help people who are not important. Do not think that you know everything. 
Romans12:17 If someone has done bad things against you, do not do bad things back to them. Try to live in a good way, so that people will respect you." 
Romans12:18 If it is possible, always try to live in peace with other people." 
Romans12:19 My friends, if someone has done bad things to you, do not try to punish them yourselves. Instead, let God be angry with them and punish them. This is what is written in the Bible: ‘The Lord God says, “When people do something wrong, I am the one who will punish them. I will pay them back.” ’" 
Romans12:20 Instead, ‘If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. If you help your enemy, he will become ashamed. He will be sorry because of what he did to you.’" 
Romans12:21 Do not let evil things win against you! Instead, do good things. Then you will win against the evil things that people do." 
Romans13:1 Everyone must obey the government officers. It is God who gives the authority to rule. The people who rule have received their authority from God. 
Romans13:2 So anyone who refuses to obey that authority is refusing to obey God. That person will receive the proper punishment. 
Romans13:3 People who do good things do not need to be afraid of the rulers. Only people who do bad things should be afraid of the rulers. Do you want not to be afraid of the rulers? Then you must do good things and they will praise you. 
Romans13:4 Rulers are God's servants. They help you to do good things. But if you do bad things, then you should be afraid of them. Their authority to punish people is real. On God's behalf they punish people who do bad things." 
Romans13:5 So you must obey the authority of rulers. Obey them not only so that they do not punish you. Do it because you know that it is the right thing to do. 
Romans13:6 This is also the reason why you pay taxes to the government. You should pay them, because the officers are God's servants. They are doing the work that is their duty." 
Romans13:7 So you must give to each person what you ought to give them. Pay taxes to the people who receive taxes. Do that for every kind of tax. Respect those people that you should respect. Praise the people that you should praise. 
Romans13:8 Always pay your debts to other people. The only debt that you should have is to love each other. Anyone who loves other people has obeyed God's Law completely. 
Romans13:9 The commands in God's Law say this: ‘Do not have sex with anyone that you are not married to. Do not kill anyone. Do not rob anyone. Do not want things that belong to other people.’ All these commands, and all the other rules in God's Law, are included in one rule. That one rule is: ‘Love other people as much as you love yourself.’" 
Romans13:10 If you love other people, you will never do anything bad to them. So anyone who loves other people has obeyed God's Law completely." 
Romans13:11 Live in that way, because you know what is happening at this time now. It is time for you to wake up from your sleep. The time when God will finally save us is near. That time is nearer now than when we first believed in him." 
Romans13:12 The night has nearly finished and the day is almost here. So we must stop doing the bad things that belong to the dark. Instead, we must take weapons like soldiers who are ready to fight in the light." 
Romans13:13 We should live in a good way, as people live in the light of day. We should not go to wild parties and become drunk. We must not have sex with anyone that we are not married to. We must not do wrong things with our bodies. We must not quarrel. We must not be jealous of other people." 
Romans13:14 Instead, live with the Lord Jesus Christ as your guide. Do not even think about the bad things that your weak human nature wants to do." 
Romans14:1 It is difficult for some Christians to trust God completely about everything. You should accept people like that as your friends. Do not argue with them about what they think is right or wrong. 
Romans14:2 Some people believe that they may eat all kinds of food. But other people are not so sure, so they eat only vegetables." 
Romans14:3 People who eat any kind of food must not think that they are better than people who eat only vegetables. Also, people who eat only vegetables must not judge other people who eat everything. They are not doing anything wrong, because God himself has accepted them." 
Romans14:4 God is the master of all believers and they are his servants. You do not have authority to judge someone else's servant. The servant's own master will decide if he has done well or if he has done something wrong. And he will serve his master well, because the Lord is able to help him." 
Romans14:5 Some people think that certain days are special and more important than other days. Other people think that all days are the same. Each person should decide what seems right to him. 
Romans14:6 Someone who makes a certain day special does it to respect the Lord. Someone who eats all kinds of food does it to respect the Lord. He thanks God for the food that he eats. Someone who refuses to eat certain kinds of food also does it to respect the Lord. And he also thanks God. 
Romans14:7 None of us lives only to please ourselves. And we do not die to please ourselves. 
Romans14:8 While we live, we want to please the Lord. And when we die, we want that to please the Lord too. So, while we live, or if we die, we continue to belong to the Lord." 
Romans14:9 Christ died and then he became alive again. This happened so that he could be the Lord of all people. He is the Lord of people who have died and those who are still alive. 
Romans14:10 So, if you eat only vegetables, do not judge other believers. And if you eat anything, do not think that you are better than other believers. Remember that all of us will have to stand in front of God. He will decide whether we have done what is right or wrong." 
Romans14:11 This is written in the Bible: ‘The Lord God says, “As surely as I live, this will certainly happen: Everyone will go down on their knees in front of me. Everyone will praise me that I am God.” ’" 
Romans14:12 So each of us will have to explain to God about the things that we have done. 
Romans14:13 So we must no longer judge other believers. Instead, decide never to cause them to do something wrong." 
Romans14:14 As for me, I am sure that we may eat any kind of food. God does not think that any food is unclean. The Lord Jesus has shown me that this is true. But someone else may believe that it is wrong to eat certain kinds of food. For that person, it would be wrong to eat that food." 
Romans14:15 Do not cause another believer to be upset because of what you eat. If you do that, you are not loving him as you should. Remember that Christ died on behalf of that person. So do not let your food make him turn away from God." 
Romans14:16 You may think that what you do is good. But it is better not to do it, if other people will say that it is wrong." 
Romans14:17 We belong to God's kingdom. The things that we eat and drink are not really important. These things are important: We should do what is right. We should have peace in our minds. We should be truly happy. God's Holy Spirit helps us to live like this. 
Romans14:18 If anyone serves Christ in this way, they will please God. And other people will respect them." 
Romans14:19 So we should try to live in a way that brings peace. We should help each other to become stronger as God's people. 
Romans14:20 Do not destroy what God has done in the life of another believer because of the food that you eat. God lets us eat all kinds of food. But do not cause trouble to another believer because of what you eat. That would be wrong. 
Romans14:21 It is better not to eat meat or drink wine if that will cause another believer to be upset. Do not do anything that he might think is wrong. 
Romans14:22 Only God should know what you believe about these things. You should do what you have decided is the right thing to do. Do not feel guilty about what you eat. Then God will bless you. 
Romans14:23 But someone else may not be sure whether it is right to eat certain kinds of food. If that person does eat that kind of food, he shows that he is guilty. He has not trusted God that it is right for him to do that. Whatever things we do, we must believe that they are right. If we do not trust God that something is right, then it is a sin." 
Romans15:1 Some of us trust God with strong faith. We must help those believers whose faith is weaker. We must be patient with them. We should not only do things that will please ourselves. 
Romans15:2 Instead, each of us should do things that will please other believers. We should help them to trust God more strongly." 
Romans15:3 Even Christ did not do things to please himself. It is written in the Bible that he said this: ‘People have insulted you, God. In that way they have also insulted me.’" 
Romans15:4 Everything that people wrote in the Bible in past times is there to teach us something. Those words help us to be patient and strong. As a result, we can trust God to do what he has promised." 
Romans15:5 It is God himself who helps us to be patient and strong. So I pray that he will help you to agree with each other and to be friends. That is how Christ Jesus wants you to live. 
Romans15:6 As a result, all of you will praise God together with the same thoughts. You will all agree that God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, is very great." 
Romans15:7 Christ has accepted you, so you must accept each other. In that way you will be praising God." 
Romans15:8 Remember this: Christ became a servant of the Jews so that they could understand God's true message. He showed them that God has now done what he promised to their ancestors. 
Romans15:9 The Gentiles also praise God because he has been kind to them. This is written in the Bible: ‘I will tell the Gentiles about you, God. I will praise you with songs, to show how great you are.’" 
Romans15:10 It says also in the Bible: ‘Be very happy, you Gentiles! Praise God together with his people.’" 
Romans15:11 It also says this: ‘ Praise the Lord God, all you Gentiles. All people, from every country, should say how great he is.’" 
Romans15:12 God's prophet Isaiah says this: ‘The root of Jesse will arrive. He will come to rule the Gentiles. The Gentiles will trust him to save them.’ 
Romans15:13 God is the one who causes us to hope for good things. I pray that God will bless you very much. I pray that he will cause you to be happy and to have peace in your minds. He will do this because you believe in him. As a result, God's Holy Spirit will make you strong with his power, so that you hope even more certainly." 
Romans15:14 My Christian friends, I myself am completely sure about you. I know that you are good in every way. You know everything about God's message. You are able to teach one another what is right." 
Romans15:15 But I still needed to write this letter to you. I have written to you strongly about some things, so that you would remember them. God has kindly chosen me to serve him in this way." 
Romans15:16 I am a servant of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles, to tell them God's good news. Like a priest, I offer the Gentiles to God, so that he will accept them. The Holy Spirit has made them a pure offering that pleases God." 
Romans15:17 So I am proud about the way that I serve God, because I belong to Christ Jesus." 
Romans15:18 But I will only speak about the work that Christ has let me do. He has used the message that I have spoken and the things that I have done. As a result, the Gentiles have obeyed God." 
Romans15:19 They have seen miracles and great things as God's Holy Spirit worked powerfully among them. In this way, I have told the good news about Christ to many people. I have done this all the way from Jerusalem as far as Illyricum." 
Romans15:20 I want to go to places where nobody has ever told people about Christ before. I want to tell the good news to people in those places. That is what I have always wanted to do. I do not want to work in a place where someone else has already started to teach God's message. 
Romans15:21 This is written in the Bible about God's Messiah: ‘The people that nobody ever told them about him will now know the truth. The people who have never heard about him will now understand.’ 
Romans15:22 Because of my work, I have never had a chance to visit you." 
Romans15:23 For many years I have been waiting for the chance to come to you. But now I have finished my work here in these places. 
Romans15:24 So I hope to visit you while I am travelling to Spain. I will stay with you in Rome for a short time. I will really enjoy some time together with you there. Then you can help me to continue my journey. 
Romans15:25 But now, I am ready to go to Jerusalem to help God's people there." 
Romans15:26 The Christians in Macedonia and Achaia want to help the poor people among the believers in Jerusalem. So they have some money ready to send to those people. 
Romans15:27 The Christians in Macedonia and Achaia chose to share what they had. But really, they have a duty to help the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem. It is the Jews who shared good things from God to help the Gentiles in their spiritual lives. So now the Gentiles ought to help the Jewish Christians with the money that they need to live." 
Romans15:28 So I must take their gift safely to the Christians in Jerusalem. When I have done that, I will come to visit you. Then I will continue my journey to Spain." 
Romans15:29 When I visit you, I know that Christ will bless us very much while we are together." 
Romans15:30 My Christian friends, please pray for me as I do this difficult work. Together we belong to our Lord Jesus Christ. God's Spirit has given us love for each other. So I ask you to help me and to pray with me." 
Romans15:31 Some people in Judea have refused to believe in Jesus. Pray that God will keep me safe from those people. Pray also that God's people in Jerusalem will happily accept the gift that I am taking to them. 
Romans15:31 Some people in Judea have refused to believe in Jesus. Pray that God will keep me safe from those people. Pray also that God's people in Jerusalem will happily accept the gift that I am taking to them. 
Romans15:32 If God agrees, I will be able to come to you. That will make us happy. I will enjoy some rest while I stay there with you." 
Romans15:33 God is the one who gives us peace in our minds. I pray that he will be with all of you to help you. Amen. 
Romans16:1 I want you to know that Phoebe, our Christian friend, is a good person. She is a servant of the church at Cenchrea." 
Romans16:2 Please be kind to her when she comes to you, because you belong to the Lord. Help her in the way that God's people ought to help one another. Give to her the things that she needs. She has worked to help me and many other people also." 
Romans16:3 Say ‘hello’ on my behalf to Priscilla and Aquila. They have worked together with me as servants of Christ Jesus. 
Romans16:4 They were even ready to die so that they could help me. So I have a good reason to thank them. All the groups of Gentile believers also have a good reason to thank them. 
Romans16:5 Also say ‘hello’ for me to the group of believers who meet in Priscilla and Aquila's house. Say ‘hello’ to my very good friend Epenetus. He was the first person in the region of Asia who believed in Christ. 
Romans16:6 Say ‘hello’ to Mary, who has worked very much on your behalf." 
Romans16:7 Say ‘hello’ to my relatives Andronicus and Junia, who were in prison with me. The apostles know them well and respect them. They became believers in Christ before I did." 
Romans16:8 Say ‘hello’ to Ampliatus on my behalf. He is my very good friend in the Lord's family. 
Romans16:9 Say ‘hello’ to Urbanus, who works with us to serve Christ. Also say ‘hello’ to my good friend Stachys." 
Romans16:10 Say ‘hello’ to Apelles. He has shown that he trusts Christ very well. Say ‘hello’ to those people who belong to Aristobulus's family. 
Romans16:11 Say ‘hello’ to my relative Herodion. Say ‘hello’ to those people in Narcissus's family who belong to the Lord. 
Romans16:12 Say ‘hello’ to Tryphena and Tryphosa. They work hard to serve the Lord. Say ‘hello’ to my good friend Persis. She has worked very hard to serve the Lord. 
Romans16:13 Say ‘hello’ to Rufus, a great servant of the Lord. Also say ‘hello’ to his mother. She has been like a kind mother to me, too." 
Romans16:14 Say ‘hello’ to Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas and Hermas. Say ‘hello’ also to all our Christian friends who are there with them." 
Romans16:15 Say ‘hello’ to Philologus and Julia, to Nereus and his sister, and to Olympas. Say ‘hello’ also to all God's people who are there with them." 
Romans16:16 When you meet, kiss each other as Christian brothers and sisters. The people of all the Christian churches here say ‘hello’ to you." 
Romans16:17 My Christian friends, I want to tell you something important. Be very careful about those people who teach wrong things. They teach things that are different from God's true message that you learned. Those people cause you to quarrel with each other. They cause people to turn away from God. You must stay away from them." 
Romans16:18 People who are like that are not servants of our Lord Christ. Instead, they are doing the things which please themselves. They speak words that seem very nice, but they deceive people who easily accept a false message." 
Romans16:19 Everyone knows that you obey God well. So I am very happy because of you. But I want you to understand clearly what things are good. And I want you to stay away from the things that are bad. 
Romans16:20 God gives us peace in our minds. He will quickly help you to win against the power of Satan. I pray that our Lord Jesus will continue to be kind to you. 
Romans16:21 Timothy, who is working together with me, says ‘hello’ to you. My relatives Lucius, Jason and Sosipater, also say ‘hello’ to you." 
Romans16:22 I, Tertius, have written down this letter for Paul. I also belong to the Lord and I say ‘hello’ to you." 
Romans16:23 Gaius also says ‘hello’ to you. I, Paul, am staying in his house. The group of Christians here also meet together in his house. Erastus also says ‘hello’ to you. He is an officer who takes care of the city's money. Our Christian friend Quartus says ‘hello’ to you too." 
Romans16:24 [I pray that our Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be very kind to all of you.] 
Romans16:25 We praise God because he is great! He is able to make you strong in your spirits! That is the good news that I teach. That good news is the message about Jesus Christ that God has kept secret since long ago. But now he has shown this message to us. 
Romans16:26 God's prophets already wrote that this good news would come. God, who lives for ever, has commanded us to tell it to people. He wants people from all nations to know this message. Then they can believe in God and obey him." 
Romans16:27 Yes, we praise God! Only he is completely wise. We praise him for ever, because of Jesus Christ! Amen." 
1Corinthians1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. God chose me to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. That is what he wanted. Sosthenes, our Christian friend, is with me here as I write to you." 
1Corinthians1:2 I am sending this letter to you, the people of God's church in Corinth. God has made you clean because you belong to Christ Jesus. He has chosen you to be his own people. So you join together with all people everywhere who worship our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is their Lord, as he is our Lord." 
1Corinthians1:3 I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. May they give you peace in your minds." 
1Corinthians1:4 I always thank God because of you. I thank him because he has been very kind to you. He has helped you like that because you belong to Christ Jesus. 
1Corinthians1:5 As a result, God has given you all the things that you need. You are able to speak everything that he wants you to speak. You are able to understand everything that he wants you to know." 
1Corinthians1:6 In this way, God has shown you that the message we told you about Christ is true." 
1Corinthians1:7 As a result, God's Spirit has helped you with every kind of gift that you need to serve him. God has blessed you with those gifts as you wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to return." 
1Corinthians1:8 God will also keep you safe and strong until the end. Then, on the day when our Lord Jesus Christ returns, you will not be guilty of anything wrong." 
1Corinthians1:9 God always does what he has promised to do. He has chosen you to be friends with his Son, Jesus Christ, who is our Lord." 
1Corinthians1:10 My Christian friends, I tell you this with the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ: ‘Please agree with each other. Do not become separate groups. Be united and think about things in the same way.’" 
1Corinthians1:11 Some people from Chloe's house have told me news about you. My friends, they say that you are quarrelling among yourselves." 
1Corinthians1:12 It happens like this: One of you says, ‘I belong to Paul's group.’ Another person says, ‘I belong to Apollos's group.’ Another person says, ‘I belong to Peter's group.’ And another person says, ‘I belong to Christ's group.’" 
1Corinthians1:13 You should not speak like that! It seems that you are breaking Christ into several parts. I, Paul, did not die on a cross to save you. When they baptized you, it was not on my behalf." 
1Corinthians1:14 I thank God that I myself did not baptize any of you except Crispus and Gaius. 
1Corinthians1:15 So none of you can say, ‘I belong to Paul's group because he baptized me.’" 
1Corinthians1:16 (Now I remember that I also baptized Stephanas and his family. I cannot remember that I baptized anyone else.) 
1Corinthians1:17 Christ did not send me to baptize people. But he did send me to tell God's good news to people. When I speak his message, I do not use clever words. It is Christ's death on the cross that has power to save people. I do not want to spoil that power with clever words." 
1Corinthians1:18 Some people think that the message about Christ's death on the cross is foolish. Those people are destroying themselves. But it is different for us, the people that God is saving. The message about the cross shows us God's power to save us." 
1Corinthians1:19 It says in the Bible: ‘I, God, will destroy all the clever thoughts of wise people. I will show that their clever ideas are useless.’" 
1Corinthians1:20 So the wise people in this world are not important. The clever teachers of God's Law are not important. People who know how to argue well are not important. God has shown that the wise ideas that belong to this world are really foolish. 
1Corinthians1:21 God shows that he himself is wise. People cannot know him as a result of their own human wisdom. Instead, God uses the message about Jesus to save people. That message may seem to be foolish to some people. But other people believe it and God is happy to save them." 
1Corinthians1:22 Jewish people want to see God do a miracle. Then they will listen. Gentile people want to listen to a message that has clever ideas. 
1Corinthians1:23 But as for us, we tell people about how Christ died on a cross. That is a message that Jewish people refuse to accept as true. Gentile people think that it is a silly message." 
1Corinthians1:24 But it is different for the people that God has called to come to him. Some of us are Jews, and some of us are Gentiles. For us, Christ shows God's great power. He shows how wise God is." 
1Corinthians1:25 Christ's death on a cross may seem a silly thing for God to do. But instead, it shows that God is very wise. He is wiser than people with their clever ideas. Christ's death on a cross may seem to show that God is weak. But really he is stronger than any human power." 
1Corinthians1:26 Christian friends, remember the time when God called you to come to him. Think about what you were like. Not many of you were clever or powerful in the way that people think is good. Not many of you belonged to important families." 
1Corinthians1:27 Instead, God chose to use things that people think are foolish. He did this so that clever people would be ashamed. Yes, God chose to use things that people think are weak. He did this so that powerful people would be ashamed." 
1Corinthians1:28 God chose to use things that people think are useless. People who belong to this world do not like those things. They think that they have no value. God did this so that the things that seem important would become unimportant. 
1Corinthians1:29 Because of all this, nobody can be proud of themselves in front of God." 
1Corinthians1:30 It is because of God's work that you now belong to Christ Jesus. As a result of Christ's death on the cross, we share in God's wise plan. Because we belong to Christ, God makes us right with himself. He makes us his own special people. He makes us free from the power of sin." 
1Corinthians1:31 Remember what is written in the Bible: ‘If you want to be proud about something, be proud of what the Lord God has done.’" 
1Corinthians2:1 Christian friends, I came to tell you God's true message. I did not use clever words when I spoke to you. I did not try to make you think that I was very wise." 
1Corinthians2:2 While I was with you, I decided to teach you only about Jesus Christ. I taught you about his death on a cross. That was the most important thing." 
1Corinthians2:3 I lived among you as someone who felt weak. I was very afraid. 
1Corinthians2:4 I was careful when I spoke to you and when I taught you God's message. I did not use clever words that seemed to be wise. Instead, the power of God's Holy Spirit showed you that my message was true." 
1Corinthians2:5 As a result, you now believe because of God's power. You do not believe because of human ideas." 
1Corinthians2:6 We do speak a message of wisdom to those of you who know Christ very well. But that wisdom does not belong to this world. It is not a message that the rulers of this world think is important. Those rulers will not be powerful for long. 
1Corinthians2:7 No, the wisdom that we speak about belongs to God. He has hidden it from people until now. But before God made the world, he decided he would let us know it. He wanted us to enjoy his glory." 
1Corinthians2:8 None of the rulers of this world understood God's wise plan. If they had understood, they would not have killed our great Lord Jesus on a cross." 
1Corinthians2:9 This is written in the Bible: ‘Nobody ever saw or heard anything about this. Nobody ever thought that it could happen. But these are the things that God has prepared for his people who love him.’ 
1Corinthians2:10 But God has sent his Spirit to show these secrets to us. God's Spirit looks carefully into everything. He even knows God's secret thoughts. 
1Corinthians2:11 Only a person's own spirit can know everything that is in his thoughts. And it is the same with God. Only God's Spirit knows everything that is in God's thoughts. 
1Corinthians2:12 We have received God's own Spirit, not a spirit that belongs to this world. As a result, we can understand all the good things that God has given to us." 
1Corinthians2:13 Those are the things that we speak about. We do not use clever words to speak a message that comes from human wisdom. Instead, we speak the message that God's Spirit has taught us. In this way, we explain a spiritual message to people who have God's Spirit." 
1Corinthians2:14 If someone does not believe in God, they cannot accept the message that comes from God's Spirit. They think that God's message is foolish. They cannot even understand these things. Only God's Spirit can explain them to people." 
1Corinthians2:15 But we have God's Spirit with us. So we can judge the true value of all things. But other people cannot truly understand us, who belong to God." 
1Corinthians2:16 As it says in the Bible: ‘Nobody can know what the Lord God is thinking. Nobody can tell him what he should do.’ But we think about these things in the same way that Christ thinks. 
1Corinthians3:1 My Christian friends, I could not teach you as I would teach people who have God's Spirit with them. Instead, I had to teach you as people who belong to this world. You were like little children who could not understand the message about Christ very well." 
1Corinthians3:2 I had to teach you things that were easy to understand, like milk that a mother feeds to her baby. You were not yet ready to receive proper food. And you are still not ready to receive God's complete message!" 
1Corinthians3:3 You still do what your human nature wants to do. You are jealous of each other, and you quarrel with each other. Yes! This shows that you do what your human nature wants to do. You live like people who do not know God." 
1Corinthians3:4 Some of you say, ‘Paul is my leader.’ And other people say, ‘Apollos is my leader.’ When you speak like that, you are talking like people who belong to this world." 
1Corinthians3:5 Is Apollos important? Is Paul important? No! We are God's servants. We told you God's good news and you believed it. Each of us is doing the job which the Lord has given to us. 
1Corinthians3:6 When I told you God's good news, I was like someone who planted seeds. Then Apollos was like someone who gave water to the young plants. But it was God who caused everything to grow." 
1Corinthians3:7 The person who plants the seeds is not important. The person who gives water to the plants is not important. The important person is God, because he causes everything to grow." 
1Corinthians3:8 The person who plants and the person who gives water both have the same purpose. God will pay each person what is right for their work. 
1Corinthians3:9 Apollos and I work together as God's servants. You are like God's field that we work in. You are also like a building that belongs to God. 
1Corinthians3:10 I am like a wise builder. God has given me that job. He has helped me to do it well. I was the person who built the foundation. Now other people are building on that foundation. But each person must be careful how he builds. 
1Corinthians3:11 God has already put Jesus Christ as the only foundation of this building. So nobody can put any other foundation there. 
1Corinthians3:12 People may build on this foundation with gold, silver or valuable stones. Or they may build on it with wood, dry grass or straw." 
1Corinthians3:13 One day, God will show clearly how good each builder's work is. God will put each person's work into a fire on that great day. The fire will show whether their work is good or bad." 
1Corinthians3:14 If the fire does not destroy the work, then that builder will receive good things from God." 
1Corinthians3:15 But if the fire destroys a builder's work, that person will lose everything. The person himself will be safe. But he will be like someone who has run through the fire to a safe place." 
1Corinthians3:16 You surely know that you are like God's own house, the temple. As God's people, God's Spirit lives in you." 
1Corinthians3:17 If anyone destroys God's house, then God will destroy that person. God's temple is a holy house, and you are like that house." 
1Corinthians3:18 Be careful! Do not think that you are better than you really are. Maybe you think that you are wise, like people today want to be wise. But if you want to become truly wise, be ready for other people to think that you are a fool." 
1Corinthians3:19 People in this world think that some people are wise. But God thinks that those wise people are fools. It says in the Bible: ‘God causes the clever thoughts of wise people to confuse them.’ 
1Corinthians3:20 In another place, the Bible says: ‘The Lord God knows that the thoughts of wise people are useless.’" 
1Corinthians3:21 Because of that, you should not boast about any human leader. All leaders are there to serve you, as God's people." 
1Corinthians3:22 Do not be proud of Paul, Apollos or Peter. We all belong to you. All of this world, as well as life and death belong to you. The things of today and the things of the future belong to you. Everything belongs to you!" 
1Corinthians3:23 You belong to Christ! Christ belongs to God! 
1Corinthians4:1 This is how you should think about us, who are leaders in the church. We are Christ's servants. God has given us a special work to do. We must explain his message to people so that they understand it." 
1Corinthians4:2 Anyone who has that kind of job must do what his master wants. That is the important thing. 
1Corinthians4:3 So what you think about me does not matter to me. What you decide, or what any human authority decides, is not important. I do not even try to judge myself." 
1Corinthians4:4 I am sure in my own mind that I have not done anything wrong. But that does not make me right. The Lord himself is the one who judges me. 
1Corinthians4:5 So you should not judge anyone before the time is right. Wait until the Lord comes again. He will show everything clearly. He will show the bad things that people have done secretly. He will show the secret purpose of people's thoughts. Then God will praise each person in a way that they deserve. 
1Corinthians4:6 My Christian friends, I want to help you to understand these things. That is why I have used Apollos and myself as examples. You should learn from us what this means: ‘Obey the commands in the Bible.’ Remember that. Then nobody will be proud of one leader and not respect another leader." 
1Corinthians4:7 None of you should think that you are better than anyone else. You received from God everything that you have. So you have no reason to be proud of what you have. It is all a gift! 
1Corinthians4:8 You already have everything that you need, do you? You think that you are very rich already! You are ready to rule as kings. You no longer need us to help you. I think it would be good if you had really become kings. Then we could also rule together with you!" 
1Corinthians4:9 This is what I think: as apostles, God has put us last of everyone. People see us as prisoners at the end of the line. We must die in a public place as our punishment. Everybody in the world has come to look at us, both people and angels." 
1Corinthians4:10 We have become like fools so that we can serve Christ. But you think that you are wise because you belong to Christ. We are weak people, but you are so strong! People respect you but they insult us!" 
1Corinthians4:11 Until now, we continue to be hungry and thirsty. Our clothes have holes in them. Sometimes cruel people hit us for no reason. We do not have our own homes." 
1Corinthians4:12 We work hard, so that we become very tired. When people insult us, we ask God to bless them. When people give us trouble, we are patient and brave." 
1Corinthians4:13 When people say bad things against us, we answer with kind words. We have become like rubbish that people throw away. That is still true, even today." 
1Corinthians4:14 I do not write these things to make you ashamed. You are like my own children that I love. So I want to teach you what is right. 
1Corinthians4:15 When I told you the good news about Jesus Christ, I became like a father for you. You may have ten thousand teachers to help you understand the message about Christ. But I am the only person who is like a father for you." 
1Corinthians4:16 That is why I want you to copy my example. 
1Corinthians4:17 To help you to do that, I have sent Timothy to visit you. He is like a son to me, and I love him very much. He continues to serve the Lord well. He will help you to remember how I live as a Christian. It is the same as I teach in all the churches everywhere." 
1Corinthians4:18 Some people among you have become proud. They think that I will never come back to warn them. 
1Corinthians4:19 But I will come to visit you again soon, if the Lord wants me to. Then I will find out what these proud people are really like. It is not just the words that they say. I will find out if they have the power of God." 
1Corinthians4:20 When people belong to God's kingdom, they have God's power. They do not just speak proud words." 
1Corinthians4:21 So you must choose what happens when I come to you. Will I need to be angry and punish you? Or will I speak kind words to show that I love you? 
1Corinthians5:1 We have heard bad news about what is happening among you. Some of you are having sex in wrong ways. We have heard that one man is even having sex with his own father's wife! Even people who do not know God do not do things as bad as that! 
1Corinthians5:2 But, you are still proud of yourselves! Instead, you ought to be very sad and ashamed. You should have sent this man away from your group." 
1Corinthians5:3 My body is not there with you, but my spirit is with you. It seems like I am there with you. I have already decided that this man is guilty. So you should punish him for what he has done." 
1Corinthians5:4 You have the authority of the Lord Jesus to do this. When you meet together as a group, my spirit will be with you. The power of our Lord Jesus will also be with you." 
1Corinthians5:5 When you meet, put this man under Satan's authority. Satan will then destroy the man's body. Then God may save the man's spirit on the day when the Lord Jesus returns." 
1Corinthians5:6 You should not be so proud of yourselves. Think about what yeast does in bread. A very small bit of yeast changes the whole loaf of bread. 
1Corinthians5:7 The yeast in the flour is like one person who does wrong things. You must remove this old yeast from among you. Then you will be like a new loaf of bread. You are really like a loaf which has no yeast in it. You are pure, because Christ died as a sacrifice on our behalf. He is like the lamb that the Israelites killed for their Passover meal." 
1Corinthians5:8 As a result, we can have our own Passover festival. We must remove everything that is bad from among us. That is like what the Israelites did when they removed all the old yeast from their homes. Instead we live in a way that is pure and honest. It is like we are eating bread which has no yeast in it." 
1Corinthians5:9 I wrote a letter to you before now. I told you that you must not be friends with people who have sex in wrong ways. 
1Corinthians5:10 But I was not talking about people who do not know God. Those people have sex in wrong ways. They want many things to please themselves. They deceive people and they rob them. They worship idols. You could never keep away from all people like that, unless you left this world!" 
1Corinthians5:11 When I wrote to you before, I was writing about people who say that they are believers. If they say that, but they have sex in a wrong way, do not be friends with them. It is the same if they want many things for themselves. They may worship idols. They may insult people. They may often get drunk. They may deceive people and rob them. If anyone in your own group does things like that, do not even agree to eat a meal with them." 
1Corinthians5:12 It is not right for me to decide about people who do not belong to the church group. God will judge those people. But you should decide what is right for the people who do belong to your group. Do what the Bible says: ‘Send the wicked person away from among yourselves.’ 
1Corinthians5:13  
1Corinthians6:1 Perhaps one of you has a quarrel with another Christian. Who should decide which of you is right? You should never ask people who do not know God to decide. No! Instead, you should go to God's people. They should decide." 
1Corinthians6:2 It is God's people who will judge all the people in the world one day. You surely know that. So you should be able to decide about small quarrels between yourselves. 
1Corinthians6:3 You know that we will judge the angels one day. So we must be able to decide about ordinary things here on earth. 
1Corinthians6:4 If you want to decide an ordinary matter like that, what do you do? Why do you go to a judge that people in the church do not respect?" 
1Corinthians6:5 I say this so that you will feel ashamed. There is surely a wise person in your group who could decide quarrels between yourselves. 
1Corinthians6:6 But instead, some believers among you accuse other believers in front of judges. And those judges are not believers!" 
1Corinthians6:7 When you accuse each other like that, it shows that you have already failed. It would be better to accept it when other people hurt you. Even if people rob you, it would be better to accept it." 
1Corinthians6:8 Instead, you yourselves hurt other people, and you even rob them. And those other people are believers like you!" 
1Corinthians6:9 Wicked people will never belong to God's kingdom. You surely know that. Do not deceive yourselves. These kinds of people will not receive God's good things: People who have sex in wrong ways. People who worship idols. People who have sex with anyone that they are not married to. Men who have sex with other men. 
1Corinthians6:10 People who rob other people. People who want many things for themselves. Drunks. People who insult other people. People who deceive other people to take things from them. None of these people will receive the good things of God's kingdom. 
1Corinthians6:11 At one time, some of you were people like that. But God has now made you clean and pure, so that you belong to him. You have become right with God. Our God has done this with the power of his Spirit because you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians6:12 Some of you believers might say, ‘I am free to do anything that I want to do.’ That may be true, but not everything will help you. I could say, ‘I am free to do the things that I want to do.’ Yes, but I will not let anything like that have power over me." 
1Corinthians6:13 Some of you might say, ‘God made food to feed our bodies. That is why people have stomachs. But one day God will destroy both stomachs and food.’ Yes, but the Lord gave our bodies to us. Our bodies belong to the Lord. So you should not use your bodies to have sex in a wrong way." 
1Corinthians6:14 God raised the Lord Jesus after he died. And God will use his power to make us alive again too. 
1Corinthians6:15 You know that your bodies are parts of Christ's own body. So you must never take your body and make it join with a prostitute's body. Never do that with your body that belongs to Christ! 
1Corinthians6:16 Anyone who joins himself to a prostitute becomes one body with that prostitute. You should know that. It says in the Bible: ‘The man and the woman become as one body.’ 
1Corinthians6:17 But everyone who joins himself to the Lord has the same spirit as him. 
1Corinthians6:18 So never have sex in a wrong way! You might say, ‘If a person does a bad thing, it is not his body that does it.’ But if you have sex in a wrong way, you are doing a bad thing to your own body." 
1Corinthians6:19 Remember this: your body is the home of God's Holy Spirit. God gave his Holy Spirit to you and he lives in you. You do not belong to yourselves any longer. 
1Corinthians6:20 God bought you for himself. He paid the price for you. So use your body to give honour to God. 
1Corinthians7:1 You wrote to ask me about certain things. You say, ‘It is a good thing when a man does not marry.’" 
1Corinthians7:2 That may be true, but then people may have sex in wrong ways. So every man should have his own wife and every woman should have her own husband." 
1Corinthians7:3 Then they can continue to have sex with each other in a way that is good. It will please both of them. 
1Corinthians7:4 The wife does not have authority over her own body. She belongs to her husband. In the same way, the husband does not have authority over his own body. He belongs to his wife." 
1Corinthians7:5 Do not refuse to have sex with each other, unless both of you agree to stop for a short time. Then you will have more time to pray. But you should come together again soon, as husband and wife. If not, Satan may try to make you do something wrong. You may want too strongly to have sex with someone else." 
1Corinthians7:6 I am saying these things to help you. I am not telling you what you must do. 
1Corinthians7:7 It would be good if all of you could live in the way that I do. But each person has his own gift from God. God helps one person to live in a certain way. God helps another person with a different gift. 
1Corinthians7:8 I will say this to those of you who have not married yet, and to those who are widows. It is better for you to remain alone. That is how I myself live." 
1Corinthians7:9 But if you want to have sex too strongly, then you should marry. It is better to do that than to want to have sex all the time." 
1Corinthians7:10 I will say this to people who have married. (This is not my rule. It is a command that comes from the Lord himself.) A wife must not leave her husband. 
1Corinthians7:11 But if she does leave him, she must not marry another man. Or she should go back to live with her husband. In the same way, a husband must not send his wife away." 
1Corinthians7:12 To all you other people, I say this. (This is what I think. The Lord has not spoken about it.) A Christian man may have a wife who does not believe in Christ. If she agrees to continue living with him, then he should not send her away." 
1Corinthians7:13 Also, a Christian woman may have a husband who does not believe in Christ. If he agrees to continue living with her, then she should not leave him." 
1Corinthians7:14 God accepts a husband who does not believe in Christ because of his Christian wife. And God accepts a wife who does not believe in Christ because of her Christian husband. If this were not true, the children would be unclean. But God does accept them, because to him they are now holy." 
1Corinthians7:15 But the husband or wife who does not believe in Christ may want to leave. If they want to become separate, let them leave. The Christian man or woman is now free. As believers, God wants you to live in peace." 
1Corinthians7:16 If you are a Christian wife, you might save your husband. If you are a Christian husband, you might save your wife. But you cannot be sure of what will happen." 
1Corinthians7:17 Each of you should continue to live in the way that God has chosen for you. Remain as you were at the time when God called you to come to him. I teach that rule to people in all the churches. 
1Corinthians7:18 Some of you are Jews, and people circumcised you. That happened before you believed in Christ. So do not try to change it. Some of you are not Jews. Nobody circumcised you. So continue like that. Do not ask anyone to circumcise you." 
1Corinthians7:19 It is not important whether someone has circumcised you or not. The important thing is this: obey what God says. 
1Corinthians7:20 Each of you should continue as you were when God called you to come to him. 
1Corinthians7:21 You may have been a slave when God called you. That does not matter. But if you have the chance to become a free person, accept it." 
1Corinthians7:22 The Lord may call a slave to come to him. Then, that slave has become free, because he belongs to the Lord. In the same way, when God calls a free person to belong to Christ, he becomes Christ's slave." 
1Corinthians7:23 God bought you for himself. He paid the price for you. So do not let anyone else make you their slave. 
1Corinthians7:24 My Christian friends, each of you should continue as you were when God first called you to come to him. Remember that you serve God." 
1Corinthians7:25 You asked me a question about people who have not yet married. The Lord has not told me any special rule about this. But I will tell you what I myself think about it. The Lord has been very kind to me. You know that you can believe what I say. 
1Corinthians7:26 This is what I think. There are many troubles in the world today. So it is better for everybody to continue as they are. 
1Corinthians7:27 If you have a wife, do not try to send her away. If you do not have a wife, do not try to marry." 
1Corinthians7:28 But if you do marry, that is not wrong. And if a young woman marries, that is not wrong. But people who marry will have many troubles during their life together. I want to save you from problems like that." 
1Corinthians7:29 My Christian friends, this is what I mean. The time that remains is very short. So men who have wives should live as if they had no wife." 
1Corinthians7:30 People who are sad should live as if they were not sad. People who are happy should live as if they had nothing to laugh about. People who buy things should live as if those things do not belong to them. 
1Corinthians7:31 If you enjoy the things of this world, do not live as if those things are important. This world, as it is now, will soon finish." 
1Corinthians7:32 I do not want you to worry about anything. A man who has not married wants to serve the Lord. He wants to live in a way that pleases the Lord. 
1Corinthians7:33 But a man who has married thinks a lot about this world's things. He wants to live in a way that makes his wife happy. 
1Corinthians7:34 As a result, he wants to do two different things. It is the same for a woman who has no husband, or a young girl who has not yet married. She wants to serve the Lord very well. She wants to be completely pure, both in her body and in her spirit. But a woman who has a husband has to think about this world's things. She wants to live in a way that makes her husband happy." 
1Corinthians7:35 I am saying this because I want to help you. I am not making rules that you have to obey. Instead, I want you to live in a right way. I do not want you to worry about anything. Then you will be able to serve the Lord very well." 
1Corinthians7:36 Perhaps a man has agreed to marry a young woman. They may have decided to wait before they marry. But, as they grow older, the man may think differently. He may think that he needs to marry her. Then, he should do what he wants to do. It is good for them to marry. It is not wrong." 
1Corinthians7:37 But another man may not change his thoughts. He may be sure that he does not need to marry his young woman. If he decides not to marry her, he is doing the right thing." 
1Corinthians7:38 So the man who marries his young woman is doing a good thing. But another man who does not marry is doing a better thing. 
1Corinthians7:39 If a woman has married, she may not leave her husband while he is still alive. But if he dies, then she is free to marry again. She may marry any man that she wants to. But he must be someone who belongs to the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:40 I do think that she would be happier if she remains without a husband. I think that God's Spirit has taught me this. 
1Corinthians8:1 You asked me a question about food that people have offered to idols. You say, ‘We all know about these things.’ We know that is true. But when you know about something, that can make you proud. Love is better. Love helps people to become strong." 
1Corinthians8:2 Some people may think that they know everything. People like that do not know as much as they ought to know. 
1Corinthians8:3 But if somebody loves God, God knows that person." 
1Corinthians8:4 So think about food that people have offered to idols. You ask, ‘Should Christians eat that food?’ We know that no idol is really alive. We also know that there is only one God." 
1Corinthians8:5 It is true that people call many things their gods. Those are things both in heaven and on earth. People have many gods and many lords. 
1Corinthians8:6 But for us there is only one God, who is the Father. All things come from him. We live to serve him. And for us there is only one Lord, who is Jesus Christ. All things are there because of him. We ourselves live because of him." 
1Corinthians8:7 But not everyone understands properly about idols. Before they believed in Christ, some people worshipped idols for many years. So if they eat food that people have offered to an idol, they become afraid. They think that the food belongs to a real god. Their thoughts are weak. They think that they are doing something wrong." 
1Corinthians8:8 But the food that we eat will not help us to please God. If we do not eat certain food, that will not make us worse. If we do eat that food, it will not make us better." 
1Corinthians8:9 You are free to eat any kind of food. You understand that. But other Christians do not understand so well. So you must be careful. Do not cause them to do something that they think is wrong. 
1Corinthians8:10 You may be eating food in a place where people worship idols. Then another Christian sees you there. You know that the idols are not real gods. But the other Christian may have weak thoughts about this. So, because he sees you, he may think that he can eat that food too." 
1Corinthians8:11 Because you understand properly, you are hurting someone who does not understand so well. In that way, the life of your Christian friend has become completely spoiled. Remember that Christ died to save that friend." 
1Corinthians8:12 If you do that kind of bad thing to hurt your Christian friends, you are hurting Christ himself. You are causing them to do something which they think is wrong." 
1Corinthians8:13 I do not want to hurt any of my Christian friends. So, if the food that I eat causes them to do something wrong, I will never eat meat again." 
1Corinthians9:1 I am a free man. I am an apostle. I have seen Jesus, our Lord. You yourselves are the result of the work that I do to serve the Lord. You know that is all true." 
1Corinthians9:2 Other people may not accept me as a true apostle. But you surely must accept me. As a result of my work, you now belong to the Lord. That shows that I am truly his apostle." 
1Corinthians9:3 This is my answer to what some people say against me: 
1Corinthians9:4 As apostles, Barnabas and I should receive food and drink from the people that we help." 
1Corinthians9:5 We should be able to take a Christian wife with us as we travel. The other apostles do this. The Lord's brothers do this too, and also Peter. We have the same authority that they have." 
1Corinthians9:6 Barnabas and I seem to be the only leaders who must work at other jobs. We should not need to do that! 
1Corinthians9:7 Think about these examples: A soldier never has to pay for his own food and clothes. A farmer who plants vines will eat some of the grapes. A person who takes care of sheep or goats will drink some of the milk from those animals. You know that this is what always happens. 
1Corinthians9:8 I am not just telling you human ideas. God's Law teaches the same thing. 
1Corinthians9:9 The Law that God gave to Moses says this: ‘Do not tie shut the mouth of your ox while it walks on your grain.’ But God's Law does not teach this only to help oxen. 
1Corinthians9:10 No, God wanted to help us too. That is why he gave this rule to Moses for his people. Any farmer who works hard to grow food should get some of the food for himself. He ploughs his fields and he threshes the grain. He does that because he hopes to eat some of the food." 
1Corinthians9:11 Our spiritual work among you is like a farmer who plants seeds. So you should give us the food and clothes that we need, as our harvest." 
1Corinthians9:12 You give help to other people who teach you God's message. So surely we deserve it even more! But Barnabas and I have not used our authority to make you help us like that. Instead, we accept all these difficult things patiently. We want the good news about Christ to go everywhere. We do not want to do anything that might stop it." 
1Corinthians9:13 Think about this: The people who work in the temple get their food from that place. The priests who offer sacrifices on the altar receive part of the offerings for themselves. 
1Corinthians9:14 The Lord has given the same command about the people who tell his good news to others. They should receive what they need to live from the people who hear the good news from them. 
1Corinthians9:15 But I have not used my authority as an apostle to demand these things from you. And I am not writing this letter to ask you to help me now. No! It would be better for me to die than to change the way that I live. I can be proud of that and nobody should stop me. 
1Corinthians9:16 I tell God's good news to people. But I have no reason to be proud because of that. It is something that I have to do. If I did not tell people the good news, I would suffer very much." 
1Corinthians9:17 If I myself had chosen to do this work, I would receive my pay. But I did not choose to do it. God has given this work to me, so I have to do it." 
1Corinthians9:18 What kind of pay do I receive? It is this: I tell people God's good news and I do not ask them to pay me. I have that authority but I do not use it. That is what makes me happy. 
1Corinthians9:19 Yes, I am a free man. I am not anybody's slave. But I choose to serve everybody like a slave. I do that so that I can help many more people to believe in Christ." 
1Corinthians9:20 When I was among Jews, I lived as they do. I did that because I wanted to bring them to Christ. The Law that God gave to Moses no longer has authority over me. But I chose to obey that Law when I was among Jewish people who obey it. I did that so that I could help them to believe in Christ." 
1Corinthians9:21 With Gentile people, who do not have Moses' Law, I lived as they do. I continue to respect God's Law. Yes, I obey Christ's law. But I lived like a Gentile, so that I could help Gentiles to believe in Christ." 
1Corinthians9:22 With weak people, I became like someone who is weak too. I did that so that I could bring weak people to believe in Christ. Whoever I am living among, I live as they do. I want to do as much as I can to save some of them." 
1Corinthians9:23 I want to help people to accept God's good news. That is why I do all these things. I want to share in the good things that the good news gives to believers. 
1Corinthians9:24 Think about how people run in a race. All the runners run, but only one of them receives the prize. You must run like that, to win the race." 
1Corinthians9:25 People who run in races prepare their bodies well. They make themselves work very hard. They do this so that they will win a prize that will quickly become spoiled. But we work hard to receive a prize that will never become spoiled. 
1Corinthians9:26 Because of that, I do not run without any purpose. I do not fight like someone who only hits the air." 
1Corinthians9:27 I make my body do what I want it to do. I make it like my slave. I have told God's message to other people. Now I do not want to lose the prize myself. So I try very hard to obey the rules of the race. 
1Corinthians10:1 My Christian friends, remember what happened to our Israelite ancestors. Moses led them out of Egypt long ago. While they followed Moses, they all walked under the same cloud. All of them walked across the Red Sea." 
1Corinthians10:2 It is as if God baptized all of them in the cloud and in the sea. In that way, they became people who followed Moses." 
1Corinthians10:3 All our ancestors ate the same spiritual food. 
1Corinthians10:4 All of them drank the same spiritual drink. They drank water from the spiritual rock that went with them. Christ was that rock. 
1Corinthians10:5 They all received the same help from God, but most of them did not please God. God caused most of them to die in the wilderness." 
1Corinthians10:6 We must learn from the things that happened to our ancestors. We must not want to do very bad things, like they did." 
1Corinthians10:7 Do not worship idols, as some of them did. The Bible says: ‘The people sat down to eat and to drink. After that, they got up from their meal and they danced.’" 
1Corinthians10:8 We must not have sex in wrong ways. Some of our ancestors did that, and 23,000 of them died in one day as a result." 
1Corinthians10:9 We must not do bad things to see whether the Lord will punish us. Some of our ancestors did that, and God sent snakes to destroy them." 
1Corinthians10:10 Do not complain against God. When some of our ancestors spoke like that, God sent an angel of death to kill them." 
1Corinthians10:11 All these things happened to our ancestors so that we would learn from them. They are written in the Bible to teach us important lessons. We are people who live at a time when all things will become complete. 
1Corinthians10:12 If you think that you are standing strongly against sin, be careful! Do not fall down!" 
1Corinthians10:13 The things that test you are the same things that test other people too. You can always trust God to help you. When you want to do something wrong, God will make you strong in your spirit. When something bad tests you, God will not let it be too strong for you. He will show you a way to escape, so that you do not do anything wrong." 
1Corinthians10:14 So, my friends, keep away from idols. Do not worship them." 
1Corinthians10:15 You are people who think carefully about things. So think about what I am saying to you. 
1Corinthians10:16 When we eat the Lord's Supper together, we remember that Christ died on our behalf. We thank God for the wine that we drink from the cup. In that way, we remember that we all belong to Christ because of his blood. We also break the bread and we eat it together. In that way, we remember that we all belong to Christ because of his body that died on the cross." 
1Corinthians10:17 We are many people, but all of us eat part of the same loaf of bread. This shows that we are one group of people. We belong together because Christ died on our behalf." 
1Corinthians10:18 Think about Israel's people. They eat part of the animals that the priests offer on the altar as a sacrifice. This shows that they share together in the sacrifice. 
1Corinthians10:19 So think about food that people offer to idols as a sacrifice. I am not saying that the idols are real gods. The food that people offer to them is not special food. 
1Corinthians10:20 But the people who offer food to idols are worshipping demons. They are not worshipping God when they do that. I do not want you to join with demons in any way. 
1Corinthians10:21 If you drink anything from the cup of demons, you cannot then drink wine from the Lord's cup. If you share a meal with demons, you cannot also share in the Lord's meal." 
1Corinthians10:22 If we do things like that, we will cause the Lord to be angry. We should worship only him. You know that we are not stronger than he is!" 
1Corinthians10:23 Some of you might say, ‘We are free to do anything that we want to do!’ But I tell you that not everything is good for you to do. You might say, ‘We are free to do anything!’ But not everything helps us to be strong as believers." 
1Corinthians10:24 Do not think about the things that will help you. Instead, each of you should think about what will help other people." 
1Corinthians10:25 You can eat any meat that people sell in the market. Do not ask questions about the meat. Do not worry about whether it is right or wrong to eat it. 
1Corinthians10:26 The Bible says, ‘The earth, and everything in it, belongs to the Lord.’" 
1Corinthians10:27 Someone who does not believe in Christ may ask you to eat a meal with him. Agree to go to his home, if you want to. Then you should eat whatever food he gives you. Do not ask questions about the food. Do not worry about it." 
1Corinthians10:28 But someone there might say to you, ‘People have offered this food to an idol.’ If someone tells you that, do not eat the food. It might cause the person who told you to be upset." 
1Corinthians10:29 It might not cause your own thoughts to be upset. But the other person may think that it is wrong to eat it. Perhaps you will say, ‘Why should another person's thoughts decide what is right for me? I am free to do what I want to do." 
1Corinthians10:30 I thank God for my food before I eat it. If I do that, nobody should say that it is wrong for me to eat it.’" 
1Corinthians10:31 Whatever you are doing, give honour to God. That includes when you eat food, or when you drink anything." 
1Corinthians10:32 Do not live in a way that causes problems for other people. That is true whether they are Jews or Gentiles, or people who belong to God's church." 
1Corinthians10:33 Copy my example. Whatever I do, I try to please other people. I do not try to do what will help me. Instead, I want to help other people. I live in that way so that God will save many people." 
1Corinthians11:1 Copy my example, in the same way that I copy Christ's example." 
1Corinthians11:2 I praise you, because you remember me and everything that I taught you. You continue to obey the message that I gave to you." 
1Corinthians11:3 This is something that I want you to know: Christ has authority over every man, as his head. Also, the head of a woman is her husband. And the head of Christ is God." 
1Corinthians11:4 So, when you meet together to worship God, remember this. When a man prays to God, or he speaks a message from God, he should not cover his head. If he covers his head, he does not respect the one who is his head." 
1Corinthians11:5 But when a woman prays or she speaks a message from God, she should cover her head. If she does not cover her head, she does not respect the one who is her head. It would be as bad as if she had cut off all her hair." 
1Corinthians11:6 If a woman refuses to cover her head, she should cut off her hair. But, if a woman has no hair, or she has very short hair, she will be very ashamed. So it is better that she should cover her head in your meetings." 
1Corinthians11:7 Men show what God is like and they show how great God is. So a man should not cover his head in your meetings. But a woman shows how great men are. 
1Corinthians11:8 When God made people, he did not use part of the woman to make a man. God made the man first. Then he made the woman from part of the man." 
1Corinthians11:9 God did not make the man as a helper for the woman. No, God made the woman as a helper for the man." 
1Corinthians11:10 That is why a woman should cover her head. It shows that she has authority on her head. It also pleases the angels. 
1Corinthians11:11 But remember this: we all belong to the Lord. Men and women need to help one another. They cannot remain separate. 
1Corinthians11:12 It is true that God used part of the man to make the first woman. But it is also true that women give birth to men. Remember that all things come from God himself. 
1Corinthians11:13 Think about this: If a woman prays to God but she has not covered her head, is that proper?" 
1Corinthians11:14 If a man has long hair, that should make him ashamed. That is clear." 
1Corinthians11:15 But if a woman has long hair, she can be proud of it. God gave beautiful hair to women to cover their heads." 
1Corinthians11:16 Some people may want to argue about this. But I have told you what we do. And all of God's people in the different churches do the same thing. 
1Corinthians11:17 Now I must teach you something else about your meetings. I will not praise you, because more bad things than good things happen when you meet together." 
1Corinthians11:18 First, I hear that there are separate groups when you meet together as God's people. I believe that some of what I have heard about you is true." 
1Corinthians11:19 Perhaps there must be separate groups among you. Then everyone can see clearly which group God accepts as right! 
1Corinthians11:20 When you meet together, the meal that you eat is not really the Lord's Supper." 
1Corinthians11:21 When you are ready to eat, each of you eats your own meal. You do not wait for anyone else. As a result, one of you may be hungry, while another person becomes drunk." 
1Corinthians11:22 If you want to eat like that, you have your own homes where you can eat and drink! Instead, you insult the people of God's church. You make people who have nothing feel ashamed. I cannot praise you for what you do. Whatever I might say to you about this, I certainly cannot praise you." 
1Corinthians11:23 This is the message that I received from the Lord. I then told it to you. This is what happened on the night that Jesus' enemies took hold of him. The Lord Jesus took some bread to eat with his disciples. 
1Corinthians11:24 He thanked God for the bread and then he broke it into pieces. He said: ‘This is my body that I give to save you. Eat this bread, so that you remember me.’" 
1Corinthians11:25 After they had eaten supper, Jesus took a cup of wine. He spoke to his disciples again. He said, ‘This cup shows my blood that will pour out when I die. God now makes a new covenant to save people because of my death. Whenever you drink from the cup in this way, do it to remember me.’" 
1Corinthians11:26 Whenever you eat the bread and you drink from the cup like this, it is a sign to people. You are showing them what the Lord's death means. You should continue to do this until he returns." 
1Corinthians11:27 Since that is true, you must be careful. Eat the bread and drink from the cup in a way that is right. Anyone who does not do that will be guilty. They show that they do not respect the Lord's body and his blood." 
1Corinthians11:28 So everyone must think carefully about how they eat the bread and they drink from the cup. 
1Corinthians11:29 They must understand how important the Lord's body is. If anyone does not recognize this, God will punish them." 
1Corinthians11:30 That is why many of you are weak and sick. Some of you have even died because of this. 
1Corinthians11:31 But if we think carefully about ourselves, then God will not need to punish us." 
1Corinthians11:32 But the Lord does need to punish us sometimes. When he does that, he is teaching us what is good and right. Then we will not be guilty, like other people who do not know God." 
1Corinthians11:33 So, my Christian friends, be patient when you meet together for the Lord's Supper. Do not start to eat before everyone is ready." 
1Corinthians11:34 If you are hungry, you should eat at home before you come. Then, when you meet together, God will not have any reason to punish you. I will talk about the other things when I come to visit you." 
1Corinthians12:1 My Christian friends, I want you to understand clearly about spiritual gifts." 
1Corinthians12:2 You know how you lived before you believed in God. You let idols lead you in many wrong ways. And those idols cannot even speak! 
1Corinthians12:3 This is what I want you to understand now: God's Spirit will never lead anyone to say, ‘God has cursed Jesus.’ And only God's Spirit will lead someone to say, ‘Jesus is Lord.’" 
1Corinthians12:4 There are different kinds of spiritual gifts. But it is the same Spirit who gives them to us. 
1Corinthians12:5 We serve the Lord in different ways, but all of us serve the same Lord." 
1Corinthians12:6 We do different kinds of work to serve God. But it is the same God who helps us all to work in different ways. 
1Corinthians12:7 God helps each of us with a gift from his Spirit. He does that so that we can help other people. 
1Corinthians12:8 The Spirit helps some people to speak wise messages. Other people can speak messages that help people to know what is true. It is the same Spirit that helps them to do that. 
1Corinthians12:9 The same Spirit causes other people to trust God completely. He gives other people gifts to make sick people well. 
1Corinthians12:10 The same Spirit gives some people power to do miracles. Other people can speak messages from God himself. Some people can recognize whether spirits are good or bad. Some people can speak in different kinds of languages. And other people can explain what those languages mean. 
1Corinthians12:11 There is only one Holy Spirit. The same Spirit helps people to do all these different things. He decides which gifts he will give to each person. 
1Corinthians12:12 Each person has only one body, but that body has many parts. All the different parts make only one body. It is like that with Christ too." 
1Corinthians12:13 When they baptized us, we all became parts of one body. It was the one Spirit who brought us together. It made no difference whether we were Jews or Gentiles. It made no difference whether we were slaves or free people. God poured his one Spirit into all of us." 
1Corinthians12:14 A person's body does not have only one part. It has many parts. 
1Corinthians12:15 If the foot could speak, it might say, ‘I am not a hand, so I do not belong to this body.’ But what it says makes no difference. It is still a part of the body." 
1Corinthians12:16 If the ear could speak, it might say, ‘I am not an eye, so I do not belong to this body.’ But what it says makes no difference. It still belongs to the body." 
1Corinthians12:17 If the whole body was an eye, the body would not hear anything. If the whole body was an ear, it would not recognize different smells." 
1Corinthians12:18 But God has decided where each different part of our body should be. 
1Corinthians12:19 If our body was all the same part, it would not be a proper body." 
1Corinthians12:20 But as it is, a body has many parts. It is still a single body." 
1Corinthians12:21 For that reason, the eye cannot say to the hand, ‘I do not need you.’ And the head cannot say to the feet, ‘I do not need you.’" 
1Corinthians12:22 No. Even the parts of a body that seem to be weaker are very necessary. 
1Corinthians12:23 There are parts of our body that we do not think are very special. But we dress them carefully! We take special care of those parts that we do not want people to see. 
1Corinthians12:24 But we do not need to do this with the beautiful parts of our body. God has put all these parts together in one body. Some parts seem to be not very special. But God has shown that those parts are very valuable. 
1Corinthians12:25 He has done that to bring all the parts together as one body. All the parts work together to help each other. 
1Corinthians12:26 Then if one part of the body hurts, every other part also hurts. If people praise one part, every part of the body is also happy." 
1Corinthians12:27 All of you together are Christ's body. And each of you is a part of that body. 
1Corinthians12:28 Like the parts of a body, God has put people in different places in his church. First, there are apostles. Second, there are people who speak messages from God himself. Third, there are teachers. After that, there are people who do miracles. There are people who have gifts to make sick people well. There are people who help others in special ways. There are people who can lead others. And there are people who can speak different kinds of languages." 
1Corinthians12:29 Not everyone in the church is an apostle. Not everyone speaks messages from God. Not everyone is a teacher. Not everyone can do miracles. 
1Corinthians12:30 Not everyone has the gifts to make sick people well. Not everyone can speak in different kinds of languages. Not everyone can explain what messages in those languages mean. You surely know that. 
1Corinthians12:31 But it is good if you really want the more valuable gifts from God. Now I will show you a way that is better than anything else. 
1Corinthians13:1 I may be able to speak many different languages that people or angels speak. But that is worth nothing if I do not love other people. I would only be making a loud noise, like someone who hits a metal cymbal." 
1Corinthians13:2 I may be able to speak messages from God. I may understand all God's secret things, and I may know all the facts. I may have great faith so that I trust God to move mountains. But I am nothing if I do not love other people." 
1Corinthians13:3 I may give all my things to poor people. I may let other people take my body to burn it. But that would not help me if I do not love others. 
1Corinthians13:4 If I love people, I will be patient. I will be kind. I will not be jealous of other people. I will not be proud or boast." 
1Corinthians13:5 If I love people, I will be polite. I will not just want to please myself. I will not quickly become angry. If someone does a wrong thing against me, I will not keep it in my thoughts." 
1Corinthians13:6 If I love people, I will not be happy when wicked things happen. Instead, I will be happy when things happen that are right and true." 
1Corinthians13:7 If I love people, I will always accept their problems. I will always believe them. I will always hope for what is best. I will always be patient in any kind of trouble." 
1Corinthians13:8 Love will always continue. The gift to speak messages from God will not always be necessary. The gift to speak in different languages will stop one day. The gift to know special things will not always be necessary. 
1Corinthians13:9 At this time, we know only a part of everything. We can only speak a part of God's whole message." 
1Corinthians13:10 But a time will come when everything becomes complete. When God does that, we will not need the small bits that we have now." 
1Corinthians13:11 When I was a child, I talked like a child. My thoughts were a child's thoughts. I understood things in a way that a child understands them. But now that I have become a man, I have stopped being like a child." 
1Corinthians13:12 At this time, we see things as if we were looking at them in a mirror. What we see now is not clear. But the time will come when we do not need a mirror. We will see everything clearly. Now we know only a part of what is true. But then we will know everything completely, as God knows us completely." 
1Corinthians13:13 At this time there are three things that continue. We have faith to trust God. We have hope to receive his good things. We have love for other people. But the most important of these things is love. 
1Corinthians14:1 Always want to love other people. Also, want very much to receive spiritual gifts from God. More than anything else, want to speak messages from God." 
1Corinthians14:2 If someone speaks in a different language, he is speaking only to God. The people who hear him do not understand his message. God's Spirit is causing him to speak about secret things." 
1Corinthians14:3 But if someone speaks a clear message from God, he helps the people who hear him. He helps them to become stronger as believers. He helps them to be happy and strong when they have trouble." 
1Corinthians14:4 Anyone who speaks in a different language only helps himself. But a person who speaks a message from God helps the believers in the church to become strong. 
1Corinthians14:5 I would like all of you to speak in different kinds of languages. But even more, I want you to speak God's message clearly to people. Anyone who can speak a message from God is important in the church. He gives more help than someone who speaks in different kinds of languages. That person only helps the church if someone can explain what he says. Only in that way will his message help the church to become stronger." 
1Corinthians14:6 My Christian friends, if I come to visit you, I want to help you. But if I speak to you in languages that you do not understand, that will not help you at all. I would need to explain to you what God has shown to me. I would need to help you to understand something. I would need to speak a clear message from God, or to teach you something. Only that would help you." 
1Corinthians14:7 Think about how people make music with flutes or with harps. Those things are not alive. People have to use them to make the right sounds. If the sounds are not clear, nobody can recognize the music." 
1Corinthians14:8 For example, soldiers will not prepare to fight unless they hear a clear sound from the trumpet." 
1Corinthians14:9 It is the same for you. You must use your tongue to speak clearly. If not, nobody will understand what you are saying. You will only be speaking words into the air." 
1Corinthians14:10 There are many different kinds of languages in this world. They all mean something to the people who speak them. 
1Corinthians14:11 Perhaps somebody may speak to me in a language that I do not understand. Then we are like foreign people to each other. 
1Corinthians14:12 So think about what is best for you. You really want the gifts that come from God's Spirit. So you should want the gifts that will help the whole church most of all. 
1Corinthians14:13 So, if you speak a message in a different language, you should pray to God about it. Pray that you may be able to explain to people what the message means." 
1Corinthians14:14 If I pray in a different language, only my spirit is praying. I do not use my mind while I pray like that." 
1Corinthians14:15 So this is what is best: I will not only pray with my spirit. I will also pray with my mind. I will sing to praise God with my spirit. And I will also sing with my mind. 
1Corinthians14:16 If you are praising God only with your spirit, not everyone will understand. People who have not learned these things will not know what you are saying. They cannot agree and say ‘ Amen ’." 
1Corinthians14:17 You may be able to thank God very well in your spirit. But your words do not help those other people. 
1Corinthians14:18 I thank God that I speak in different kinds of languages more than all of you. 
1Corinthians14:19 But when the church meets together, I want to help other believers and teach them. So I would rather say five words that people understand than thousands of words in a different language." 
1Corinthians14:20 My Christian friends, do not continue to think like children think. Instead, think properly like men and women should think. The only way you should be like babies is to keep away from evil things." 
1Corinthians14:21 This is written in the Bible: ‘I will send strangers to speak to my people. They will speak my message to them in strange languages. But even when I do this, my people will not listen to me.’ That is what the Lord God has said." 
1Corinthians14:22 So the gift to speak in different languages is a sign. It shows God's power to people who do not believe in him. It is not a sign to help believers. But the gift to speak clear messages from God shows his power to believers. It is not a sign for those people who do not believe. 
1Corinthians14:23 Think about what happens when the whole church meets together. Perhaps some people come in who do not believe in God. Or perhaps they have not learned much about God. If all of you are speaking in strange languages, those visitors will not understand. They will say that you are all crazy!" 
1Corinthians14:24 But if all of you are speaking clear messages from God, a visitor will understand you. He may not believe in God. He may not have learned much about God. But he will hear God's message. He will understand that he has done wrong things. He will know that he is guilty because of all the things that you are saying." 
1Corinthians14:25 The visitor's secret thoughts will become clear. As a result, he will bend down low and he will worship God. He will say, ‘God is really here among you!’" 
1Corinthians14:26 My Christian friends, this is what you should do when you meet together. Some of you may have a song to praise God. Some of you may have a lesson to teach about God. Other people may have something special that God has shown to them. Some people may have a message in a different language. Other people may explain what the message means. Do all these things in a way that helps the church to become stronger." 
1Corinthians14:27 If some people speak in different languages, it should only be two or three people. They should speak one person at a time. Then someone must explain what each person said." 
1Corinthians14:28 But perhaps there is nobody among you who can explain like that. Then, anyone who wants to speak in a different language must be quiet in your meeting. Instead, they should speak to God by themselves." 
1Corinthians14:29 When you meet together, two or three people should speak a message from God. Then the other people there should think carefully about each message." 
1Corinthians14:30 Someone who is sitting in your meeting may receive a special message from God. Then, the person who is already speaking should stop." 
1Corinthians14:31 In this way, each person can speak a message from God, one person at a time. Then everyone will learn something that helps them." 
1Corinthians14:32 All of you who speak messages from God are able to control your own spirits. 
1Corinthians14:33 When we meet together as God's people, he wants there to be peace among us. He does not want people to be confused. This is what happens in all the churches where God's people meet together." 
1Corinthians14:34 The women should be quiet during the meetings. They should not speak. They should remember that they are under authority. That is also what God's Law teaches. 
1Corinthians14:35 If a woman wants to ask about something, she should ask her husband at home. Women should be ashamed if they speak in the church." 
1Corinthians14:36 Remember that God's message did not start from you in Corinth! You are not the only people who have heard it, either." 
1Corinthians14:37 Someone may think that he has the gift to speak messages from God. Or he may think that he has received other spiritual gifts. A person like that should agree with what I have written to you. He should recognize that it is a command from the Lord himself. 
1Corinthians14:38 If anyone refuses to accept this, you should not accept that person." 
1Corinthians14:39 My Christian friends, it is good when you want to speak clear messages from God. And if anyone has the gift to speak in a different language, do not stop them." 
1Corinthians14:40 But you must do everything in a proper way that helps people. 
1Corinthians15:1 My Christian friends, I want you to remember the good news that I taught to you. You received it from me and you continue to trust it as a true message." 
1Corinthians15:2 Because of that good news, God will save you. But you must continue to trust the message that I told you. If you do not, you have believed it for nothing." 
1Corinthians15:3 I received the good news from Christ, and I told that message to you. I told you the most important things: Christ died as a sacrifice for our sins. The Bible already said how that would happen." 
1Corinthians15:4 People buried his dead body. On the third day after that, God raised him up to live again. The Bible speaks about that too." 
1Corinthians15:5 After that, Christ appeared to Peter. Later, he appeared to his 12 disciples." 
1Corinthians15:6 And after that, he appeared to more than 500 believers at the same time. Most of those 500 people are still alive, but some of them have died." 
1Corinthians15:7 Then Christ appeared to James. Later he appeared to all the apostles. 
1Corinthians15:7 Then Christ appeared to James. Later he appeared to all the apostles. 
1Corinthians15:8 After all these people had seen him, Christ also appeared to me. I was like someone who was born at the wrong time." 
1Corinthians15:9 Among all the apostles, I am the least important. I caused a lot of trouble for God's church. So I do not deserve for people to call me an apostle." 
1Corinthians15:10 But God was very kind to me. He helped me to become a different person. And because God has been so kind to me, the result has been great. I have worked harder than all the other apostles. But I could not do that work myself. No, I could only do it because God is kind and he helped me." 
1Corinthians15:11 So, all of us apostles teach the same good news about Christ. That is the message that you have believed. It does not matter which of us told it to you, whether it was me or someone else." 
1Corinthians15:12 We all teach this message: God raised Christ up after his death. But some of you say that dead people do not live again. 
1Corinthians15:13 Anyone who says that is wrong. If dead people do not live again, Christ also did not rise up after his death. He would still be dead." 
1Corinthians15:14 And if God did not raise Christ up, it would be useless for us to teach you. There would be nothing for you to believe." 
1Corinthians15:15 We would have been telling lies about God, because we told you that God raised Christ up after his death. But if dead people do not live again, it means that God did not raise Christ." 
1Corinthians15:16 So, if dead people never rise to a new life, even Christ himself did not rise after his death." 
1Corinthians15:17 And if Christ did not rise, then you have believed a false message. God would still say that you are guilty, because of your sins." 
1Corinthians15:18 Also, think about those people who believed in Christ but they have already died. If dead people do not rise to a new life, those people would have no life with God." 
1Corinthians15:19 As believers, we trust Christ to give us a new life after death. But if we only trust him to help us in this life, we should be very sad. Everybody should be very sorry for us, more than for anyone else." 
1Corinthians15:20 But God did raise Christ up after his death. We know that is true! Christ rose up to go to God in heaven. He was the first, so we know that believers who die will also rise up." 
1Corinthians15:21 All people die because of what one man did. That man was Adam. And it is because of another man that people can rise up after death to a new life. That man is Christ. 
1Corinthians15:22 As people, all of us belong to Adam's family. So all of us must die. In the same way, all people who belong to Christ will live again after death." 
1Corinthians15:23 But it must happen like this: first of all, Christ became alive again after his death. Then, when Christ returns, his people will also rise to new life." 
1Corinthians15:24 After that, the end of everything will happen. Christ will win against every ruler and power and authority. Then he will give the kingdom to God the Father, for him to rule." 
1Corinthians15:25 Christ himself must rule as king until he has won against all his enemies. 
1Corinthians15:26 The last enemy that he must destroy is death. 
1Corinthians15:27 The Bible says, ‘God has put all things under his authority.’ But it is clear that the words ‘all things’ do not include God himself. No, because it is God who put all things under Christ's authority." 
1Corinthians15:28 When God has put all things under Christ's authority, then God's Son, Jesus Christ, will put himself under his Father's authority. Then God will have complete authority over all things, everywhere." 
1Corinthians15:29 Think about this. Some of you have let people baptize you on behalf of believers who have already died. But if dead people do not rise up to a new life, there is no reason to baptize anyone on their behalf." 
1Corinthians15:30 Also, think about us! All the time we are in great danger." 
1Corinthians15:31 Yes, every day I come near to death! Why do I tell you this? It is because I am proud of you. I am proud because we all belong to Christ Jesus our Lord." 
1Corinthians15:32 At Ephesus, people attacked me like wild animals and I fought against them. But that would be worth nothing to me if dead people do not rise to a new life. If dead people do not live again, then we could say: ‘We will have a big feast today, because tomorrow we will all be dead.’" 
1Corinthians15:33 Do not let anyone deceive you. Remember this: ‘If you become a friend of bad people, you also will live in a bad way.’" 
1Corinthians15:34 So start thinking properly! Stop doing wrong things! Some of you do not really know God. I am saying this to make you feel ashamed. 
1Corinthians15:35 One of you may ask, ‘How does God raise dead people, to make them alive again? What kind of body will they have?’" 
1Corinthians15:36 Do not think like a fool! When you plant a seed in the ground, it has to die first. Then it can become alive again and grow into a new plant." 
1Corinthians15:37 You put a seed into the ground. It might be wheat or it might be another kind of seed. You do not put into the ground the whole plant that the seed will become. 
1Corinthians15:38 But God makes that seed become a plant. Each plant has its own special body that God has chosen for it. 
1Corinthians15:39 Also, living things do not all have the same kind of body. People have one kind of body. Animals have a different kind of body. Birds and fish also have a different kind of body." 
1Corinthians15:40 There are also things up in the sky that are different from the things here on the earth. The things in the sky are beautiful in a different way from the things on the earth. 
1Corinthians15:41 The sun is beautiful in a special way. The moon is also beautiful in a special way, but it is different from the sun. The stars are beautiful too. Each star is beautiful in its own special way." 
1Corinthians15:42 It will be like that when God raises a dead person to a new life. We bury the dead person's body in the ground and it becomes spoiled. But when God raises it up, it will live for ever." 
1Corinthians15:43 When we bury the body, it is not beautiful. But when God raises it up, it will be very beautiful. When we bury the body, it is weak. But when God raises it, it will be strong." 
1Corinthians15:44 What we bury in the ground is a human body. But the body that God will raise up is a spiritual body. There is a human body that belongs to this earth. There also has to be a spiritual body that belongs to heaven. 
1Corinthians15:45 The Bible says, ‘The first man, Adam, became a person who received life.’ But Christ is like the final Adam. He is a spirit who gives life to people." 
1Corinthians15:46 The spiritual body does not come first. No, what is human comes first. Then what is spiritual comes after that." 
1Corinthians15:47 God used soil from the ground to make the first man, Adam. But the second man came from heaven." 
1Corinthians15:48 People who live on the earth have bodies like the first man. People in heaven have bodies like the man who came from heaven. 
1Corinthians15:49 At this time, God has given us bodies that look like the first man. One day we will have bodies that look like the man who belongs in heaven." 
1Corinthians15:50 I tell you this, my Christian friends. Our weak human bodies cannot go to heaven, to join God in his kingdom there. Our human bodies will die. They cannot share in something that will continue for ever." 
1Corinthians15:51 Listen to me. I will explain a great secret to you. Not all of us will die, but God will change all of us." 
1Corinthians15:52 It will happen in a short moment, when the last trumpet makes a sound. When that trumpet makes its sound, God will raise up the believers who have died. He will give us bodies that can never die. In that way, he will change all of us." 
1Corinthians15:53 It must happen in that way. Our bodies that are becoming spoiled must change. They must change into bodies that will never become spoiled. Our bodies that are dying must change into bodies that will never die again. 
1Corinthians15:54 God will give us new bodies like that. When this happens, what is written in the Bible will become true: ‘God has won against death. He has destroyed it completely!’" 
1Corinthians15:55 ‘Death, you can no longer win! Death, you no longer have any power to hurt us!’" 
1Corinthians15:56 Death only has power to hurt us because of our sins. And it is the authority of God's Law that gives power to sins. 
1Corinthians15:57 But we thank God! Because of our Lord Jesus Christ, we win against death and its power." 
1Corinthians15:58 So, my Christian friends that I love, you must continue to be strong in your spirits. Do not let anything move you away from your faith. Continue to work hard as you serve the Lord. You know that whatever you do for him will not be useless." 
1Corinthians16:1 You asked me about the money that you want to give to God's people at Jerusalem. You should do it in the same way that I told the churches in Galatia. 
1Corinthians16:2 On the first day of every week, each of you should put some of your money in a safe place. Think about how much God has given you. Then decide how much you can give to other people. If you do that, the gift will be ready when I come to you. We will not need to start doing it after I come." 
1Corinthians16:3 When I arrive there, you should choose some people from your group. They will take your gift to Jerusalem. I will write some letters that they will take with them. The letters will explain about your gift." 
1Corinthians16:4 I may also go myself, if that seems the right thing for me to do. Then they can travel with me." 
1Corinthians16:5 But I must travel through Macedonia first. After I have been to Macedonia, then I will come to you." 
1Corinthians16:6 I will probably remain with you for some time. I may even stay for the whole winter. Then you can help me to continue my journey to the next place. I am not sure yet where that may be. 
1Corinthians16:7 If I come now, I would only have a short time with you. But I want to stay with you for a longer time, if the Lord will let me do that." 
1Corinthians16:8 So I will remain here at Ephesus until the Pentecost festival. 
1Corinthians16:9 God has given me the chance to do a great work here. But many people are against what I am doing. 
1Corinthians16:10 If Timothy comes to you, please take care of him. Make sure that you welcome him. He is doing the Lord's work, as I am also doing." 
1Corinthians16:11 So you should all respect him. When he is ready to leave, help him with the things that he needs. Then he can continue his journey and come to me here. I am waiting for him to come with the other believers." 
1Corinthians16:12 As for our Christian friend Apollos, I wanted him to visit you. I have often told him to come to you together with the other believers. But he does not think that this is the right time. He will come to you when he has the chance." 
1Corinthians16:13 Watch carefully for danger. Never stop trusting God. Continue to be brave and strong. 
1Corinthians16:14 Whatever you do, do it with love." 
1Corinthians16:15 My Christian friends, you know about Stephanas and his family. They were the first people in Achaia to become Christians. They have worked hard as God's servants to help his people." 
1Corinthians16:16 So you must respect people like them. Do what they say. And also respect everyone who works hard to serve God together with them. 
1Corinthians16:17 I was very happy when Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus arrived here. You could not be here yourselves, but they have come on your behalf." 
1Corinthians16:18 They have helped me to feel stronger in my spirit, as they also did for you. You should recognize the authority of people like them." 
1Corinthians16:19 The churches here in the region of Asia say ‘hello’ to you. Aquila and Priscilla, and the group of believers that meets in their house also say ‘hello’ to you. They love you because you belong to the Lord, as they do." 
1Corinthians16:20 All the Christians here say ‘hello’ to you. When you meet, kiss each other as Christian brothers and sisters." 
1Corinthians16:21 I, Paul, am writing these words at the end of this letter with my own hand. I say ‘hello’ to you." 
1Corinthians16:22 If anyone among you does not love the Lord, I pray that God will curse that person. Our Lord, come now! We are waiting for you!" 
1Corinthians16:23 I pray that the Lord Jesus will continue to be kind to all of you. 
1Corinthians16:24 I love all of you who belong to Christ Jesus, as I do." 
2Corinthians1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. God chose me to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. Our Christian friend Timothy is here with me as I write. I am sending this letter to you, the people of the church in Corinth city. I am sending it also to all of God's people who live in other places in Achaia." 
2Corinthians1:2 I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. I pray that they will give you peace in your minds." 
2Corinthians1:3 We thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, because he is so good to us. As our Father, he is very kind to us. He is our God who comforts us in every way." 
2Corinthians1:4 Whenever we have trouble, he comforts us. Because of that, we ourselves can comfort other people. When they have any kind of trouble, we can comfort them, in the same way that God has comforted us." 
2Corinthians1:5 Christ himself received much pain, and God comforted him. As Christ's servants, we also receive the same kind of pain. But, God also comforts us very much, because we belong to Christ." 
2Corinthians1:6 So, when we receive trouble, the result is that we can comfort you. And then also, God saves you. When God comforts us, that helps us to comfort you too. As a result, when you receive the same kinds of trouble that we receive, you learn to be patient and strong." 
2Corinthians1:7 So we continue to be sure that you will remain strong. You receive many troubles, as we do too. But we know that God will also comfort you, as he comforts us." 
2Corinthians1:8 Our Christian friends, we want you to know about the trouble that we had in Asia. Those troubles were very painful. We ourselves were not strong enough to continue. We even thought that we would die." 
2Corinthians1:9 We ourselves thought that we would certainly die. We knew that we could not trust our own strength. We had to trust God. He is the one who causes dead people to rise up to new life. So we could trust him to make us strong. 
2Corinthians1:10 We nearly died, but God saved us from that great danger. We know that we can continue to trust him. He will save us from any future danger." 
2Corinthians1:11 We also know that you continue to help us as you pray for us. As many people pray for us, they will thank God when he answers their prayers. They will see that God is very kind to us, and they will thank him." 
2Corinthians1:12 We can be proud of how we have lived in this world. We have been careful to be honest and good with everyone. And we have been like that with you even more. We are sure in our own minds that this is true. We have not tried to be clever in a human way. But we have lived in the way that God has helped us to live. 
2Corinthians1:13 We are writing to you only about things that you yourselves can read and understand. And I hope that you will understand completely one day. 
2Corinthians1:14 You do not understand us completely yet. But I hope that you will understand completely on the day when our Lord Jesus returns. Then you can be proud of us in the same way that we will be proud of you. 
2Corinthians1:15 So, because I was sure that you trusted me, I wanted to visit you twice. Then I could bring God's help to you twice. I decided to visit you first on my way to Macedonia. Then I would visit you again on my way back from Macedonia. After that, you could help to send me on my journey to Judea." 
2Corinthians1:15 So, because I was sure that you trusted me, I wanted to visit you twice. Then I could bring God's help to you twice. I decided to visit you first on my way to Macedonia. Then I would visit you again on my way back from Macedonia. After that, you could help to send me on my journey to Judea." 
2Corinthians1:16  
2Corinthians1:17 I did not decide this in a careless way. I really wanted to do it. I do not decide to do things only to please myself, like someone who does not know God. I do not say ‘Yes,’ and then I immediately say ‘No.’" 
2Corinthians1:18 God always does what he says he will do. In the same way, my promise to you was not both ‘Yes’ and ‘No’." 
2Corinthians1:19 Silas, Timothy and I told you the message about God's Son, Jesus Christ. Christ is not someone who changes his message between ‘Yes’ and ‘No’. Instead, he always says ‘Yes,’ and he does what he says." 
2Corinthians1:20 Christ says ‘Yes’ to all of God's promises, so that they become true. So when we pray, we say ‘Yes, amen!’ because we know that Christ has done it. And when we do that, we are saying that God is great." 
2Corinthians1:21 It is God that causes us to continue to trust Christ. He does that for us and for you, because we belong to Christ. God has chosen us to serve him." 
2Corinthians1:22 He has also put his mark on us, to show that we belong to him. He has given his Spirit to us, to live in us. Because of that, we know that we will receive all the good things that God has promised." 
2Corinthians1:23 God will show that what I say is true! He knows my thoughts. Why did I decide not to come back to Corinth at this time? I did not come because I did not want to be angry with you. 
2Corinthians1:24 We are not trying to tell you what you must believe, like masters would do. You are already strong in your spirits because you trust God. So we want to help you to be really happy." 
2Corinthians2:1 Because of that, I decided not to visit you again at that time. I did not want to make you sad." 
2Corinthians2:2 You are the only people who can make me happy. So, if I make you sad, there will be nobody to make me happy." 
2Corinthians2:3 That is why I did not visit you. I wrote that letter to you instead. You are the people who should make me happy. I did not want you to make me sad when I visited you. I felt sure about all of you. I knew that, if I was happy, then all of you would be happy too." 
2Corinthians2:4 When I wrote that letter, I was very sad and upset. I cried a lot. I did not want to make you sad. Instead, I wanted you to know that I love you very much." 
2Corinthians2:5 Someone among you has done things that have made other people sad. That person has made me sad. But really he has made all of you much more sad than me. I do not want to say more about this than is necessary. 
2Corinthians2:6 Most of you have agreed to punish him. That should be enough. 
2Corinthians2:7 Now, you should forgive him. You should comfort him. If you do not do that, he may become too sad. He may not be able to think properly." 
2Corinthians2:8 So I tell you this. Please show him that you really do love him. 
2Corinthians2:9 When I wrote that letter to you, I wanted to know what you would do. I wanted to see if you would do everything that I told you." 
2Corinthians2:10 When you forgive anyone, I also forgive that person. Whatever bad thing somebody has done, I have Christ's authority to forgive them. And I do it to help you." 
2Corinthians2:11 We do not want Satan to win against us. He is very clever. We know how he likes to cause us to have trouble. 
2Corinthians2:12 I went to Troas city to tell people the good news about Christ. When I arrived there, I discovered that the Lord had already prepared people to listen." 
2Corinthians2:13 But I was not happy in my thoughts because I could not find my friend Titus there. So I said ‘goodbye’ to those people and I travelled on to Macedonia. 
2Corinthians2:13 But I was not happy in my thoughts because I could not find my friend Titus there. So I said ‘goodbye’ to those people and I travelled on to Macedonia. 
2Corinthians2:14 But I thank God! He has won against sin, because of what Christ has done. Christ is our leader and we show that he is the winner. We also help people to know about Christ. That knowledge is like a lovely smell that comes to people everywhere." 
2Corinthians2:15 When we tell people about Christ, we are like a lovely smell that rises up to God. We are like that among the people that God is saving. We are also like that among the people who are dying because they are far from God." 
2Corinthians2:16 For the people who are dying, we are like a bad smell that brings a message of death. But for the people that God is saving, we are like a lovely smell that brings a message of new life. Nobody is really good enough to tell such an important message!" 
2Corinthians2:17 Some people even tell God's message because they want to get a lot of money for themselves. But we are not like them. No, God himself has sent us to do this work. And he sees what we are doing. So we are honest and we speak God's message clearly, as Christ's servants should do." 
2Corinthians3:1 We do not need any more to show that our work is good. Some people need to have letters from other people to say that they do good work. We do not need to show you letters like that. Nor do we need you to write a letter like that for us. 
2Corinthians3:2 You yourselves show that we have done good work. You are like a letter that is written on our lives. Everybody can read that letter and they can understand it. 
2Corinthians3:3 It is clear that you are like a letter that Christ himself has written. We are the people who brought God's message to you. Now people see what God has done in your lives. That is like a letter that they read. But it is not a letter written on paper with ink. It is the Spirit of the living God who wrote it. He did not write it on pieces of stone. Instead, he wrote it deep inside you." 
2Corinthians3:4 We know that these things are true. Because of what Christ has done, we trust God to help us." 
2Corinthians3:5 We know that we cannot do this work by ourselves. We never think that. But God makes us able to do it. 
2Corinthians3:6 God has made us his servants. So we are able to tell people the message of his new covenant. This new covenant is not about rules that someone has written down. Instead, it comes from God's Spirit. Rules bring death as a punishment. But God's Spirit brings new life to us, not death." 
2Corinthians3:7 Moses wrote the words of the old covenant on pieces of stone. It showed how great and powerful God was. Moses' face shone brightly after God spoke to him. It did not stay bright, but the Israelite people still could not look at Moses' face." 
2Corinthians3:8 So the new covenant, which comes from God's Spirit, will show the power of God even more." 
2Corinthians3:9 The old covenant showed people that they were guilty. But God's new covenant makes people right with him. So the new covenant shows God's power even more than the old one did! 
2Corinthians3:10 The old covenant was great and powerful at one time. But now we have God's new covenant instead of the old one. The great power of the new covenant shows that the old covenant is no longer powerful. 
2Corinthians3:11 The old covenant was powerful, but it came to an end. God's new covenant will continue always. So it surely shows the power of God even more!" 
2Corinthians3:12 So, because we know all this, we speak God's message bravely." 
2Corinthians3:13 We are not like Moses. His face did not continue to be bright with the light from God. So he covered his face with a cloth. He did not want the Israelite people to see that the light was coming to an end. 
2Corinthians3:14 But those Israelite people could not think properly. Even today, they still do not understand the message of God's old covenant. When they read it, they are like people who have a cloth that covers their minds. It continues like that unless they believe in Christ. Then Christ removes the cloth so that they understand." 
2Corinthians3:15 Even today, when the Israelite people read Moses' books, a cloth still covers their minds." 
2Corinthians3:16 But when a person turns to trust the Lord, then God takes the cloth away." 
2Corinthians3:17 The Lord is the same as the Spirit. And when the Lord's Spirit is with anyone, that person is free." 
2Corinthians3:18 We show the power of the Lord to other people. It is like God has removed a cloth from over our faces. He is changing us so that we become more and more like him. We show how great God is more and more clearly. It is the Lord God who does all this, by the work of his Spirit." 
2Corinthians4:1 God has given us this work to speak his message. Because he has been so kind to us, we are not afraid to continue." 
2Corinthians4:2 We refuse to do anything secretly that we might be ashamed of. We do not tell lies. We do not change God's message to deceive people. No. We tell God's true message clearly. God himself sees that we teach people in an honest way. Everyone should understand that we only do what is right. 
2Corinthians4:3 Some people may not understand the good news that we speak. They are only the people who are losing their lives with God. 
2Corinthians4:4 Those people do not accept God's good news. The god of this world has confused their minds. They cannot see the light that the good news brings. That message teaches about the great power of Christ, who shows us exactly what God is like." 
2Corinthians4:5 We do not speak a message about ourselves. We tell people that Jesus Christ is our Lord. Because we belong to Jesus, we have become your servants, not your masters." 
2Corinthians4:6 God is the one who said, ‘Let light shine in the dark.’ And he is the one who has caused his light to shine deep inside us. Because of that, we know how great and powerful God is. We see that his power shines brightly in Christ's face." 
2Corinthians4:7 God has given us the gift to speak his message. But we ourselves are very weak. It is like we are keeping his valuable gift in clay pots. So it is clear that the great power of God's message comes from God himself. It does not come from us. 
2Corinthians4:8 We receive trouble all the time, but that does not stop us. We do not always know what to do, but we are not afraid to continue." 
2Corinthians4:9 We have many enemies, but we always have friends. People hurt us, but they never destroy us." 
2Corinthians4:10 As we serve Jesus, we know that we may die as he died. Because of that, our lives show that we live because he is alive." 
2Corinthians4:11 Yes, as we live our lives, death is always very near, because we serve Jesus. As a result, people can see in our weak, human bodies that Jesus is alive." 
2Corinthians4:12 So death is near to us, even as we live. But as a result, we are bringing God's life to you." 
2Corinthians4:13 This is written in the Bible: ‘I believed in God, and so I spoke.’ We also have the same kind of faith in God. So we also speak God's message, because we believe in him." 
2Corinthians4:14 God raised up the Lord Jesus, to become alive again after his death. Because we belong to Jesus, we know that God will also raise us up after we die. Together with you, God will take us to be where he is." 
2Corinthians4:15 In everything that we do, we want to help you. As a result, more and more people are seeing how kind God is. So people are thanking God more and more. And that shows how great God is." 
2Corinthians4:16 That is why we are not afraid to continue our work. Yes, our bodies are getting older and weaker. But our spirits are becoming stronger every day!" 
2Corinthians4:17 We have these little troubles that continue for a short time. But as a result, we will receive the great things that God has prepared for us. Those great things are much more important than our little troubles. And God's great things will continue for ever!" 
2Corinthians4:18 So we do not look at the things that we can see in this world. Instead, we look at the things that people cannot see. The things that we can see are only here for a short time. But the things that we cannot see will continue for ever." 
2Corinthians5:1 Our bodies are like a tent that we live in here on earth. One day, that home will come to an end. But we know that God will give us a new home. It is not a house that a human builder has built. God has built it for us in heaven and we will live there for ever." 
2Corinthians5:2 While we are in our bodies here on earth, we cry inside ourselves. We want to go and live in our house that is in heaven." 
2Corinthians5:3 That will be like new clothes that we put on. When we go to live there, we will not be without clothes and ashamed." 
2Corinthians5:4 While we still live in our bodies here on earth, we cry inside ourselves. Many difficult things happen to us. We do not really want to take off our old body. But we do want to put on our new body, like new clothes. When that happens, we will no longer need our old body which had to die. Instead we will have a new body that will live for ever." 
2Corinthians5:5 God is the one who has prepared us to have a new life in heaven one day. He has given his Spirit to be with us now. Because of that, we know that we will receive all God's good things one day." 
2Corinthians5:6 Because God's Spirit is with us, we continue to be brave. While we still live here on earth, we know that we are not yet at home with the Lord." 
2Corinthians5:7 As we live here, we have to trust God. We do not yet see the things that belong to heaven." 
2Corinthians5:8 We are brave because we trust God. We would like to go away from our body here on earth. Then we would go to be at home with the Lord. And that would be better! 
2Corinthians5:9 But all the time we want to please the Lord. We want to do that while we are still at home in our body here on earth. We also want to please him when we go away from these bodies. 
2Corinthians5:10 Because all of us must go and stand in front of Christ as our judge. He will decide about the things that we have done during our lives here on earth. Whether we have done good things or bad things, we will receive what is right for us." 
2Corinthians5:11 We know that the Lord will judge us, so we are careful to obey him. Because of that, we tell God's message to people. We want them to believe in God. And God himself knows that we try to do what is right. I hope that you know that also, when you think about it." 
2Corinthians5:12 We are not trying again to make you think that our work is good. But we do want to give you the chance to be proud of us. Then you will be able to show the false teachers that they are wrong. They are proud about what they look like on the outside. They do not think about what they are really like inside themselves. 
2Corinthians5:13 To some people, we may seem to be crazy. That is because we want to serve God. But if we seem to be wise, that is to help you." 
2Corinthians5:14 Whatever we do, we do it because Christ loves us. We know that one man, Christ, died on behalf of all people. So we also know that all of us died with him." 
2Corinthians5:15 He died on behalf of all people. So, while we live, we no longer live to please ourselves. Instead, we live to please Christ. He is the one that died on our behalf. He is the one that God raised up, to live again." 
2Corinthians5:16 So that changes how we think about people. We no longer use human ideas to think what they are like. At one time, we thought about Christ as humans think. But now we think about him very differently!" 
2Corinthians5:17 When anyone belongs to Christ, they become a new person. Their old way of life has gone. Their new life has begun!" 
2Corinthians5:18 All this is what God does for us. Because of what Christ has done, God has brought us back to himself, as his friends. Now he wants us to bring other people to be his friends too. That is the job that he has given to us." 
2Corinthians5:19 God's message is this: By Christ's death, God was bringing people of the world back to himself, as his friends. He would no longer keep their sins in his thoughts. This is the message that God wants us to tell people." 
2Corinthians5:20 So we speak to people on behalf of Christ. It is like this: When we speak, God himself is speaking to you. On behalf of Christ, we say to you, ‘Please come back to God, as his friends!’" 
2Corinthians5:21 Christ never did any wrong thing, but God punished him as if he had. He died as punishment for our sins. As a result, we become right with God when we belong to Christ. We become right, because he is right." 
2Corinthians6:1 So, as we work together with God, we tell you to be careful. Remember that God has been very kind and he has forgiven you. Do not waste that!" 
2Corinthians6:2 In the Bible God says: ‘I answered your prayer at the right time for me to help you. I helped you on the right day for me to save you.’ Listen! The right time is now! The day for God to save you is now! 
2Corinthians6:3 We do not want anyone to think bad things about our work. So we do nothing that might cause trouble for anyone. 
2Corinthians6:4 Instead, in everything that we do, we want to show that we are God's servants. When people want to hurt us, we are patient and brave. We have many troubles. We become sad and upset." 
2Corinthians6:5 Sometimes people hit us. They put us in prison. They attack us. But we work hard. We cannot always sleep at night. We are often hungry. 
2Corinthians6:6 We serve God honestly and with pure thoughts. We know what is true. We are patient and kind. God's Holy Spirit helps us. We love people in an honest way. 
2Corinthians6:7 We speak a true message. God's power gives us strength. We do what is right, so we fight like soldiers on God's behalf. It is like we have God's weapons in both hands!" 
2Corinthians6:8 Sometimes people respect us as important. Sometimes they think that we are worth nothing. People may insult us, or they may praise us. We only say true things, but some people still think that we deceive others." 
2Corinthians6:9 Some people do not want to know us. Other people accept us as God's servants. It seems like we are dying, but look! We are still alive! People punish us, but they do not kill us." 
2Corinthians6:10 We seem to be sad, but really we are always happy. We seem to be poor, but we make many people rich. We seem to have nothing, but really we have everything." 
2Corinthians6:11 Our friends at Corinth, we have spoken to you very honestly. We have shown you how much we love you." 
2Corinthians6:12 We have done nothing to stop you from being our friends. But you have not really wanted to become our friends. 
2Corinthians6:13 I am speaking to you as I would speak to my own children. Be fair to us! Accept us as your friends, just as we have accepted you." 
2Corinthians6:14 Do not become united with people who do not believe in Christ. God has made you right with himself. Right and wrong cannot work together. Light and dark cannot join together. 
2Corinthians6:15 Christ will never agree with the devil. People who believe in Christ are completely different from people who do not believe. 
2Corinthians6:16 Idols do not belong in God's house. Remember that we believers are the house of the God who lives for ever. This is what God has said: ‘I will make my home with them and I will live among them. I will be their God and they will be my people.’ 
2Corinthians6:17 And so, the Lord God says: ‘Come out from among them and be separate. Do not touch anything that is unclean. Then I will accept you.’" 
2Corinthians6:18 He also says: ‘I will be a Father to you. You will be my sons and my daughters. That is what the Almighty Lord God says.’ 
2Corinthians7:1 So, my friends, God has promised these things to us. So we must keep ourselves clean from everything that makes our bodies or our spirits unclean. We must respect and obey God. Then we will become more and more like him." 
2Corinthians7:2 Be friends with us. We have done nothing wrong to any of you. We have not hurt anyone. We have not cheated anyone. 
2Corinthians7:3 I am not saying this to make you feel ashamed. As I have told you before, you are our special friends. We will continue to love you, whether we live together or we die together." 
2Corinthians7:4 I know you and I trust you. I am proud of you. You have helped me to be strong. So, even when we have many troubles, I am still very happy." 
2Corinthians7:5 When we arrived in Macedonia, our bodies did not rest at all. We had many kinds of trouble. All around us, people quarrelled with us. Inside us, we were afraid." 
2Corinthians7:6 But when people feel upset, God helps them to be strong. And God made us happy when Titus arrived." 
2Corinthians7:6 But when people feel upset, God helps them to be strong. And God made us happy when Titus arrived." 
2Corinthians7:7 God comforted us not only because Titus came to us. He comforted us also by what Titus told us about you. He said that you had helped him to be strong. He told us that you want to see me. He told us that you are very sad about what happened. He told us also that you are ready to help me. Because of what Titus told us about you, I was very happy." 
2Corinthians7:7 God comforted us not only because Titus came to us. He comforted us also by what Titus told us about you. He said that you had helped him to be strong. He told us that you want to see me. He told us that you are very sad about what happened. He told us also that you are ready to help me. Because of what Titus told us about you, I was very happy." 
2Corinthians7:8 But even if I made you sad by my letter, I am not sorry about that. At one time, I was sorry that I had written it. I saw that my letter had made you sad. But you were sad only for a short time." 
2Corinthians7:9 So now I am happy, but not because my letter made you sad. No, I am happy because it made you turn away from wrong things. You became sad as God wanted you to be sad. So, when the letter made you sad, we did not really hurt you." 
2Corinthians7:10 People need to become sad in the way that God wants. When they are sad like that, it causes them to turn away from wrong things. Then God saves them from their sins. They will never be sorry about that! But when people become sad in the way that the world wants, it does not help them. They do not turn to God and they die in their spirits." 
2Corinthians7:11 You became sad in the way that God wanted. And see what good results that has brought! It has made you work hard to do good things. You want to show people that you do what is right. You are angry against sin. You want to obey God. You want to make things right again. You want to please God. You want to punish anyone who does wrong things. In all these ways, you have shown that you are right. You have done everything that was necessary in this matter." 
2Corinthians7:12 So why did I write that letter to you? It was not because of the person who did the wrong thing. Nor was it to help the person that he hurt. No. I wrote the letter to show you something about yourselves. I wanted God to show you that you do really love us and you respect us. 
2Corinthians7:13 That is how God has comforted us. It was not only us that God comforted. When Titus came, we were very happy to see how happy he was too. He was happy because all of you had taken care of him." 
2Corinthians7:13 That is how God has comforted us. It was not only us that God comforted. When Titus came, we were very happy to see how happy he was too. He was happy because all of you had taken care of him." 
2Corinthians7:14 I had told Titus that I was very proud of you. When he came to you, you showed that I was right about you. We have always spoken only true things to you. And when we said good things about you to Titus, you showed that those things were also true." 
2Corinthians7:14 I had told Titus that I was very proud of you. When he came to you, you showed that I was right about you. We have always spoken only true things to you. And when we said good things about you to Titus, you showed that those things were also true." 
2Corinthians7:15 Now, when Titus thinks about you, he loves you even more. He remembers that you were ready to obey him. You respected his authority and you received him into your homes." 
2Corinthians7:15 Now, when Titus thinks about you, he loves you even more. He remembers that you were ready to obey him. You respected his authority and you received him into your homes." 
2Corinthians7:16 So now I am very happy because I trust you to do what is right. 
2Corinthians8:1 My Christian friends, let me tell you about the believers in the churches in Macedonia. God has been very kind to them." 
2Corinthians8:2 They have had bad troubles, but they continued to be very happy. As a result, they gave a lot of money to other people. They themselves are very poor, but they still helped other people a lot." 
2Corinthians8:3 Let me tell you this. They gave as much money as they were able to give. Then they gave even more than that! They gave it because they wanted to. 
2Corinthians8:4 They wanted the chance to help God's people. That would make them happy. So they asked us many times to help them to do this. 
2Corinthians8:5 They did more than we had even hoped for! First, they gave themselves to the Lord. Then they also gave themselves to us. They did that because God wanted them to do it." 
2Corinthians8:6 Because of that, we asked Titus to continue to help you. He is the person who helped you to start giving money. So he will help you to finish this good work." 
2Corinthians8:6 Because of that, we asked Titus to continue to help you. He is the person who helped you to start giving money. So he will help you to finish this good work." 
2Corinthians8:7 You have so much of everything! You trust God very well. You speak well. You know everything. You want to do many good things. You love us even more than we love you! So also do the best that you can as you give money to help others. 
2Corinthians8:8 I am not telling you that you must do this. I have told you how much other believers want to give their money. In that way, I want to see if you really love other people who need your help." 
2Corinthians8:9 You know that our Lord Jesus Christ is very kind. He was rich, but he made himself poor to help you. So then, because he became poor, you could become rich." 
2Corinthians8:10 This is what I think you should do. Last year, you were the first people to give money. You really wanted to do that. So the best thing for you is to finish what you started to do." 
2Corinthians8:11 Now finish the work. When you started, you wanted very much to do it. Now you should want just as much to finish it. You should give what you are able to give." 
2Corinthians8:12 If you really want to give, then God will accept your gift. God does not want you to give more than you are able to give. He will be happy about what you can give." 
2Corinthians8:13 My purpose is not to bring trouble to you. You should not have pain while other people have plenty. Instead, both you and they should have enough." 
2Corinthians8:14 At this time, you yourselves have plenty. So you are able to give to those people who do not have enough. One day, things may change. They may have plenty, and you may not have enough. Then they can give money to help you. In that way, you will all have enough when you need it." 
2Corinthians8:15 It says this in the Bible: ‘The person who picked up a lot did not have too much. And the person who picked up a small amount also had enough.’ 
2Corinthians8:16 Titus wants to help you just as much as we do. We thank God that he has made Titus ready to do that. 
2Corinthians8:16 Titus wants to help you just as much as we do. We thank God that he has made Titus ready to do that. 
2Corinthians8:17 He was very happy when we asked him to come to you. He himself already wanted to help you. So he really decided to visit you for himself. 
2Corinthians8:18 We are sending another man with Titus. He is also a believer. The Christians in all the other churches praise this man. They say that he works hard to tell people the good news about Christ. 
2Corinthians8:18 We are sending another man with Titus. He is also a believer. The Christians in all the other churches praise this man. They say that he works hard to tell people the good news about Christ. 
2Corinthians8:19 Those Christians in the other churches have also chosen this man to travel with us. They want him to help us when we take this gift. Our work will show that the Lord is great. It will also show that we are ready to help. 
2Corinthians8:20 We want to be very careful about this large gift of money. That is why the other believer will come with us. We do not want anyone to say that we have done something wrong. 
2Corinthians8:21 Our purpose is to do only what is right. We want the Lord to see that. We want people to see it as well. 
2Corinthians8:22 We will also send another believer along with the other men. This man has always shown us that we can trust him. He has wanted to help in many different ways. Now that he is very sure about you, he wants to help even more." 
2Corinthians8:23 As for Titus himself, he works along with me, to help you. The other believers are coming on behalf of the churches that sent them. They want to show that Christ is great." 
2Corinthians8:23 As for Titus himself, he works along with me, to help you. The other believers are coming on behalf of the churches that sent them. They want to show that Christ is great." 
2Corinthians8:24 So show these men that you love them. Then all the churches will be sure about you. They will know that we were right to be proud of you. 
2Corinthians9:1 I do not need to write to you about the money that you want to send to God's people in Jerusalem. 
2Corinthians9:2 I know that you want to help very much. I have told the believers in Macedonia how good you are. I tell them that you believers in Achaia have been ready to give your money since last year. Because you are so ready to help, most of them now also want to help." 
2Corinthians9:3 But I do not want the way that I have praised you not to be true. So I am sending these men, our Christian friends, to come to you. I want to be sure that you will be ready to give your money. That is what I have told people about you." 
2Corinthians9:4 Perhaps some believers from Macedonia might come with me. If you are not ready when we come, we would be ashamed. We would be ashamed because we trusted you. And I think that you would be ashamed as well!" 
2Corinthians9:5 So I decided to tell these men to visit you before I come myself. They will help you to prepare the gift that you promised. Then it will be ready when I arrive. Everyone will know that you really wanted to give this gift. Nobody has made you give it. 
2Corinthians9:6 Remember this: If a farmer plants only a few seeds, he will not get much as a result. But if he plants plenty of seeds, he will get a big harvest." 
2Corinthians9:7 Each of you should think carefully and then decide how much you can give. Then you will not be sad to give that money. Nobody has made you give it. God loves someone who is happy to give help to other people. 
2Corinthians9:8 Since God loves you, he is able to give you more than you need. You will always have every good thing that you need for yourselves. And you will have enough to do many good things to help other people." 
2Corinthians9:9 The Bible says this about someone who helps other people: ‘He has shared his things with many poor people. People will always remember the good things that he has done.’ 
2Corinthians9:10 It is God who supplies seeds for the farmer to plant. It is God who supplies bread for food. God will help you in the same way. He will give you plenty of things so that you can help other people. You will be like a farmer who plants many seeds. And God will cause those seeds to grow. There will be many good results from the help that you give to other people. That will be like a great harvest. 
2Corinthians9:11 God will make you rich with many good things. As a result, you will always be able to give plenty to other people. Many people will thank God because of your gifts that we take to them." 
2Corinthians9:12 This good work that you are doing is helping God's people. It is helping to supply what they need. And it is not only doing that. It is also causing many people to thank God very much. 
2Corinthians9:13 Your gift of money will show people that you really want to help. People will say that God is great. They will see that you want to obey God. They will see that you are happy to give to them, and to everyone else. They will see that you really believe the good news about Christ, as you say you do." 
2Corinthians9:14 They will want to thank you. They will pray to God for you. They will do that because they see how very kind God has been to you. 
2Corinthians9:15 Yes, we should all thank God for his very great gift. That gift is too great to describe it with words!" 
2Corinthians10:1 I, Paul, need to ask you something. Perhaps you think that I am only humble when I am present there with you. You think that I only speak strongly to you when I am far away! Now I am away from you. But I am still humble and kind, like Christ is." 
2Corinthians10:2 So please listen to what I am asking you. Some people among you think that we live like people who belong to this world. When I come to visit you, I am sure that I will be brave enough to speak against those people. But I do not want to have to speak strongly like that against all of you." 
2Corinthians10:3 It is true that we live in this world as humans. But we do not use our human ideas to fight against what is wrong. 
2Corinthians10:4 It is like we are fighting in a war, but we do not use human weapons. Instead we use God's weapons. Those weapons are powerful enough to destroy the enemy's strong places. We use those weapons to destroy people's wrong ideas." 
2Corinthians10:5 People may speak proud ideas that stop other people from knowing God. We show that those ideas are completely wrong. We change the way that people think, so that they want to obey Christ." 
2Corinthians10:6 You must show that you are ready to obey completely. Then we will be ready to punish anyone who refuses to obey in any way. 
2Corinthians10:7 Take a careful look at what is happening among you. If anyone is sure that he belongs to Christ, he should remember this: We also belong to Christ, just as he does." 
2Corinthians10:8 You may think that I am too proud of my authority. But it is the Lord who has given that authority to us apostles. We have that authority so that we can help you become stronger as believers. We do not have it so that we can destroy you! So I am not ashamed to be proud of this. 
2Corinthians10:9 When I write letters to you, I am not trying to frighten you. Please do not think that." 
2Corinthians10:10 Some people say: ‘Paul's letters are powerful and they say strong things. But when he himself is here with us, he seems to be weak. And the words that he speaks have no value.’" 
2Corinthians10:11 Anyone who says things like that should understand this: There is no difference between what we write and what we do. When we come to you, we will do what we have written in our letters." 
2Corinthians10:12 Some people praise themselves. They say how clever they are. But we could never do that. We could not even try to be like those people. But they do not understand anything. They decide among themselves how good they are. They look at one another to see if they are better or worse. 
2Corinthians10:13 As for us, we will only be proud of the work that God has given us to do. We will not be proud of anything more than that. And that includes our work among you." 
2Corinthians10:14 We were the first people to come as far as Corinth and tell you the good news about Christ. That was part of the work that God has given to us to do. So it is right for us to tell you how proud we are. 
2Corinthians10:15 We do not praise ourselves for the work that other people have done. That would not be right. But we hope that you will continue to believe more and more strongly. In that way our work among you will become even greater. But it will still be the work that God has given to us, and no more than that." 
2Corinthians10:16 Then we want to tell God's good news to people in places beyond where you are. Those are not places where God has sent other people to work. Then we will not be praising ourselves for the work that anyone else has done. 
2Corinthians10:17 The Bible says this: ‘If you want to be proud about something, be proud of what the Lord God has done.’" 
2Corinthians10:18 Who is really good? It is not the person who praises himself. It is the person that the Lord says is a good person. 
2Corinthians11:1 Please be patient with me! I am speaking like a fool. I know that you are being patient with me already! 
2Corinthians11:2 God wants to keep you for himself. And that is what I want too. I have brought you to Christ, like a pure bride who marries one husband. I want you to be pure and to belong only to him." 
2Corinthians11:3 Remember how the snake deceived Eve. Because he was clever, she believed his lies. I am afraid that the same thing might happen to you. False teachers may make you believe wrong things. Then you will no longer love Christ in a pure and honest way." 
2Corinthians11:4 You are ready to listen to any false teachers who come to you. They might tell you about a different Jesus from the Jesus that we told you about. They might want you to receive a different spirit from the Spirit that you received from us. They might tell you a different kind of good news from the message that you heard from us. You seem to accept all this! 
2Corinthians11:5 Those teachers call themselves very special apostles. But I think that I am as special as they are! 
2Corinthians11:6 Perhaps I do not speak as well as they speak. But I do know what I am speaking about. We have always made this very clear to you in everything that we do. 
2Corinthians11:7 When I told you God's good news, I never asked you to pay me anything. I made myself less important so that you could be more important. I do not think that I was wrong to do that." 
2Corinthians11:8 Believers in other churches gave money to me so that I could serve you. It is like I was robbing them so that I could help you. 
2Corinthians11:9 When I was there with you, I never made you help me. Even when I needed something, I did not cause trouble to anyone. Instead, the believers who came from Macedonia gave me everything that I needed. I was very careful never to cause you to have trouble. And I will continue to be careful like that." 
2Corinthians11:10 The message that I speak about Christ is true. So I will continue to be proud of how I lived among you. Nobody in the whole region of Achaia can stop me doing that. 
2Corinthians11:11 You must not think that I say this because I do not love you. God himself knows that I love you. 
2Corinthians11:12 Yes, I will continue to work among you in the way that I am already doing. I will not take any pay from you. Then there will be no chance for those other teachers to be proud about themselves. They will not be able to say that they work in the same way that we do." 
2Corinthians11:13 Those people are false apostles. They do not work in an honest way. They try to make people think that Christ has sent them as his apostles. 
2Corinthians11:14 That should not surprise you! Even Satan can change himself to look like an angel who belongs to the light. 
2Corinthians11:15 So do not be surprised when Satan's servants do the same thing. They can also seem to be serving God. They may seem to be doing good things, but really what they do is bad. So God will punish them in the end." 
2Corinthians11:16 I say this again: nobody should think that I am a fool. But even if you do think that, still listen to me. Give me a chance to praise myself a little, as a fool would do." 
2Corinthians11:17 When I say good things about myself like this, it is not how the Lord would talk. No, these are the words of a fool." 
2Corinthians11:18 But many other people are using human ideas to praise themselves. So I will also do that. 
2Corinthians11:19 You think that you are very wise! So you are happy to listen to fools. 
2Corinthians11:20 You accept people who make you like their slaves. You accept people who cheat you, or take things from you. You accept people who are proud of themselves. Even if someone hits you in your face, you still accept him." 
2Corinthians11:21 But we were not brave enough to do things like that to you. Should I be ashamed of that? But other people are brave enough to praise themselves. So I will also be proud of the same things. (Now I am talking like a fool!) 
2Corinthians11:22 Are they proud that they are Hebrew people? So am I. Do they belong to Israel's people? So do I. Are they descendants of Abraham's family? So am I. 
2Corinthians11:23 Are they Christ's servants? I serve him even better than they do! (Now I am speaking like a crazy person.) I work much more than they have worked. I have been in prison more often than they have. People have hit me with whips very many times. I have nearly died many times. 
2Corinthians11:24 At five different times, the Jewish leaders punished me with whips. Each time they hit me 39 times." 
2Corinthians11:25 Three times the Romans punished me with sticks. People threw stones at me to kill me once. Three times I have been on ships that broke in the sea. Once I was in the sea for a night and a day. 
2Corinthians11:25 Three times the Romans punished me with sticks. People threw stones at me to kill me once. Three times I have been on ships that broke in the sea. Once I was in the sea for a night and a day. 
2Corinthians11:26 I have travelled on many journeys. I have been in danger from rivers and also from robbers. I have been in danger from my own people and also from Gentiles. I have been in danger in cities and also in the wilderness. I have been in danger on the sea. I have been in danger from false believers. 
2Corinthians11:27 I have worked very hard, and I have been in pain. Many times I have not slept. I have often been hungry and thirsty. Many times I have had no food. I have often been cold and without enough clothes." 
2Corinthians11:28 All these troubles have caused me to suffer. But also, every day I have trouble in my mind. I worry about the believers in all the churches." 
2Corinthians11:29 When one of these believers is weak, then I feel weak too. When something causes one of them to do something wrong, then I am very upset." 
2Corinthians11:30 If I must be proud about myself, I will only be proud of things that show my weakness." 
2Corinthians11:31 I am not telling lies. God, the Father of the Lord Jesus, knows that. He is the one that we should praise for ever." 
2Corinthians11:32 When I was in Damascus, the ruler of that city sent soldiers to catch me. He was under the authority of King Aretas. The soldiers were watching carefully outside the city." 
2Corinthians11:33 But my friends put me in a basket on the end of a rope. They sent me out through a window in the city wall and they let me drop to the ground. That is how I got away from the ruler of the city. 
2Corinthians12:1 I must continue to praise myself. It will not really help you, but I will tell you anyway. The Lord has shown me special things, like in a dream." 
2Corinthians12:2 I know a certain man who belongs to Christ. 14 years ago, God quickly took this man up to the third heaven. Perhaps this man was still in his body. Perhaps he had gone away from his body. I do not know. Only God knows." 
2Corinthians12:3 I know that God took this man up to paradise. I do not know whether this man was still in his body or not. Only God knows. When this man was in heaven, he heard about secret things. Those are things that no words can describe. God will not let any person speak about those things. They are too special." 
2Corinthians12:4  
2Corinthians12:5 I will say proud things about a man like that. But I will not be proud of anything good about myself. I will only be proud of things that show my weakness. 
2Corinthians12:6 If I did want to praise myself, that would not make me a fool. No, because I would be saying true things. But I will not say good things about myself. I want everyone to think properly about me. People should look at how I live. They should think about what I say. That is enough for them to decide about me." 
2Corinthians12:7 Yes, God did show me many things that were very special. But he did not want me to be proud because of that. So he gave me a pain in my body, like a sharp thorn. Satan uses that pain to give me much trouble. It is like Satan's angel that he sends to hurt me. That certainly stops me from being proud of myself!" 
2Corinthians12:8 I asked the Lord three times to take this pain away from me. 
2Corinthians12:9 But he said to me, ‘I will be kind to you and I will help you. That will be enough for you. When you are weak, I will show that I am completely powerful to help you.’ So I am happy to be proud about my weakness. Then I know that Christ's power will be with me." 
2Corinthians12:10 That is why I am happy even when I am weak. People may insult me. They may bring me trouble. They may want to hurt me. I may have many kinds of trouble. But I am still happy because I am serving Christ. Yes, whenever I am weak, then I am strong." 
2Corinthians12:11 I am speaking like a proud fool, but you have made me do it. You yourselves should be saying good things about me. I may not be important. But I am as good as those very special apostles." 
2Corinthians12:12 When I was there with you, I showed that I was a true apostle. I worked patiently among you. I did many miracles and great things that showed God's power." 
2Corinthians12:13 I worked among you in the same way as I did with the other churches. You were never less important to me than they are. The only difference is that I did not ask you to help me with money. So perhaps I should ask you to forgive me for that! 
2Corinthians12:14 Listen to me! This is the third time that I am ready to visit you. I will not ask you to give anything to me. I do not want any of your things. Instead, I want you yourselves. You are like my children. Children should not have to supply what their parents need. It is parents who should supply what their children need." 
2Corinthians12:15 So I will be happy to give everything that I have to you. I will be happy to give myself too, because I want to help you. Perhaps I love you too much! But that should not mean that you will love me less than you should." 
2Corinthians12:16 I did not give you trouble. You surely know that. But some of you say that I deceived you. You think that I was clever and I got money from you. 
2Corinthians12:17 That is not true! When I sent people to you, they never cheated you on my behalf." 
2Corinthians12:18 I asked Titus to come and visit you, and I sent another Christian friend with him. But Titus certainly did not deceive you to get anything from you. Both he and I have always been completely honest with you. We both think in the same way." 
2Corinthians12:18 I asked Titus to come and visit you, and I sent another Christian friend with him. But Titus certainly did not deceive you to get anything from you. Both he and I have always been completely honest with you. We both think in the same way." 
2Corinthians12:19 What are you thinking when you read all this? Do you think that we want to show you how good we are? No, we are speaking as people who belong to Christ. God knows us. Everything that we do is to help you. We love you and we want to make you stronger as believers." 
2Corinthians12:20 When I come there to visit you, I hope you will be living in a good way. But I am afraid that I will not see what I want to see. Then you will see that I am different from what you want me to be! I am afraid that you may be quarrelling. You may be jealous of each other. You may be very angry with each other. Some of you may just want to please yourselves. You may be insulting one another, or telling lies about each other. You may be proud of how good you are. You may be causing trouble for one another. Yes, I am afraid that all those things may be happening among you." 
2Corinthians12:21 I am afraid that I may be very sad when I come back to you. My God may cause me to feel ashamed about you. Some of you may still be doing bad and disgusting things. You may be having sex with people that you are not married to, or in other wrong ways. Those are the bad things that many of you did at one time. If you have not turned away from those bad things, that will make me weep." 
2Corinthians13:1 This is the third time that I will be coming to visit you. Remember this: ‘There must be two or three people to say certainly that another person has done something wrong. Two or three people must agree what has happened.’ 
2Corinthians13:2 I have already warned those people who did wrong things before. I did that when I was with you on my second visit. Now I am warning them again, while I am away from you. So, when I come to you the next time, nobody will go free. I will punish those people and all the others who have done wrong things." 
2Corinthians13:3 That will tell you what you want to know about me. You will surely know that I speak with the authority of Christ himself. Christ is not weak when he works in you. He shows his power among you. 
2Corinthians13:4 People killed Christ on the cross as a weak person. But he now lives by God's power. We are also weak as we serve Christ, like he was weak. But we live, because he now lives. So, when we come to you, we will show God's power among you." 
2Corinthians13:5 Think carefully about how you are living. Are you really believing the message about Christ? I hope you know that Jesus Christ is in you. You ought to know that, unless you have completely failed." 
2Corinthians13:6 I hope that you will know that we ourselves have not failed. We do belong to Christ, as you do." 
2Corinthians13:7 Now we pray to God that you will not do any wrong things. We do not pray this to show that God has accepted us as good. We pray like that because we want you to do what is right. We want that, even if we ourselves seem to have failed." 
2Corinthians13:8 We can only work to show what is true. We cannot do anything against what is true. 
2Corinthians13:9 We are happy when we seem to be weak, if you become strong as a result. We pray that you will become completely as you should be." 
2Corinthians13:10 That is why I am writing these things to you now, while I am away from you. Then, when I arrive, I will not need to be angry with you. I will not have to use my authority to punish you. The Lord gave that authority to me to help you to become stronger as believers. He did not give it to me so that I could destroy you." 
2Corinthians13:11 Now I say ‘goodbye’ to you, my Christian friends. Do only what is right. Let my message make you strong. Agree with each other. Live together in peace. I pray that God will be with you. He is the one who loves us and gives us peace in our minds." 
2Corinthians13:12 When you meet, kiss each other as Christian brothers and sisters." 
2Corinthians13:13 All God's people here say ‘hello’ to you. 
2Corinthians13:14 I pray that the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be very kind to you all. I pray that God's love will be with you. And I pray that the Holy Spirit will help you to serve each other as friends. 
Galatians1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. I am an apostle of Jesus Christ. It is not any group of people or any one person that has given that authority to me. It is Jesus Christ himself who has chosen me to serve him. And God our Father has also sent me. He is the one who raised Jesus to become alive again after his death." 
Galatians1:2 All the believers who are here say ‘hello’ to you. We all send this letter to you. I am writing to you, the people of the churches that are in Galatia." 
Galatians1:3 I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. I pray that they will give you peace in your minds." 
Galatians1:4 Jesus offered himself as a sacrifice because of all the wrong things that we have done. He did this to save us from all the bad things of this world in which we live now. This is what God, our Father, wanted him to do." 
Galatians1:5 God is great and we should praise him for ever! Amen. This is true. 
Galatians1:6 I am very surprised that you are turning away so soon from God. He is the one who chose you to come to him. He did that because Christ is very kind to you. But now you want to accept a different message which some people call good news. 
Galatians1:7 But really, there is no other message from God which is good news. Some people are confusing you. They are trying to change the good news about Christ and make it something different." 
Galatians1:8 We have taught you the true message about God's good news. Nobody should ever teach a message that is different from that. Neither we ourselves, nor even an angel from heaven, should ever teach a different message. If anyone does that, I pray that God would curse them." 
Galatians1:9 We have already said this, but now I will say it again. Do not accept any message that is different from the message that we taught you. If anyone teaches a different message, I pray that God will curse them for ever." 
Galatians1:10 When I say these things, I am not trying to please people. No, it is God that I want to please. If I only wanted to make people happy, then I would not be a servant of Christ." 
Galatians1:11 The good news that I tell people did not come from human ideas. I want you to know that, my friends." 
Galatians1:12 Nobody on earth gave it to me. Nobody taught it to me. No, it was Jesus Christ himself who showed it to me clearly." 
Galatians1:13 You know about the things that I did before, when I obeyed the Jewish rules. I caused the people of God's church to suffer very much. I tried to destroy those people completely." 
Galatians1:14 I obeyed the Jewish rules better than many other Jews who were the same age as me. I tried very much to obey the ideas that our Jewish ancestors taught. 
Galatians1:15 But God had chosen me to serve him even before I was born. I did not deserve this, but God is very kind." 
Galatians1:16 He chose to show his Son clearly to me, so that I could tell the Gentiles about him. When God chose me to do that, I did not talk about it with any person." 
Galatians1:17 Nor did I go to Jerusalem to see Christ's apostles there. Those men were already his apostles before I was. But I did not go to talk to them. Instead, I went immediately to the region of Arabia. Later, I went back to the city of Damascus." 
Galatians1:18 Then, three years later, I did go to Jerusalem to meet with Peter. I stayed with him for 15 days." 
Galatians1:19 I did not see any other apostles, except James, the Lord's brother." 
Galatians1:19 I did not see any other apostles, except James, the Lord's brother." 
Galatians1:20 God knows that what I am writing to you is completely true! 
Galatians1:21 Later, I went to different places in Syria and Cilicia." 
Galatians1:22 The Christians in the churches in Judea had never met me. 
Galatians1:22 The Christians in the churches in Judea had never met me. 
Galatians1:23 They had only heard people say this about me: ‘At one time, this man caused us to suffer as Christians. He tried to destroy God's message about Jesus. But now he himself is telling people the good news about Jesus.’" 
Galatians1:24 When the believers in Judea heard that, they praised God because of me." 
Galatians1:24 When the believers in Judea heard that, they praised God because of me." 
Galatians2:1 14 years later, I went to Jerusalem again. This time I went with Barnabas, and I also took Titus with me." 
Galatians2:1 14 years later, I went to Jerusalem again. This time I went with Barnabas, and I also took Titus with me." 
Galatians2:2 I went there because God had shown me that I should go. I talked to the Christian leaders there. I explained to them the good news that I teach to the Gentiles. But I talked only to those men who seemed to be the leaders. I wanted to be sure that they agreed with me. I did not want my work, both in past times and now, to be useless." 
Galatians2:3 Titus was with me then. He is a Greek person and nobody had circumcised him. But the leaders in Jerusalem did not say that we must circumcise him. 
Galatians2:3 Titus was with me then. He is a Greek person and nobody had circumcised him. But the leaders in Jerusalem did not say that we must circumcise him. 
Galatians2:4 But some men did want us to obey all the Jewish rules. Those men came secretly among our group. They said that they were believers, but they were not true believers. They wanted to see how we lived as believers. They wanted to know how Christ Jesus has made us free from the Jewish rules. They wanted to make us slaves to those rules." 
Galatians2:5 But we did not allow those men to do this to us. They wanted to spoil the true good news that you have believed. We kept that truth safe for you. 
Galatians2:6 The church leaders in Jerusalem did not argue with me. (They were the people who seemed to be the leaders. It does not matter to me whether they were really important people or not. God does not respect some people more than others.) Those leaders did not tell me to change the message that I teach. 
Galatians2:7 Instead, they understood that God had given a special job to me. God wanted me to tell the good news about Christ to the Gentiles. In the same way, he had told Peter to tell the good news to the Jews." 
Galatians2:8 God gave Peter the authority as his apostle to take his message to the Jews. God also gave me the authority to be his apostle to the Gentiles. 
Galatians2:9 James, Peter and John understood that God had chosen to give this special job to me. They are the leaders that the church in Jerusalem respects. And they were happy to accept Barnabas and me as their friends. They agreed that we should take God's message to the Gentiles. They themselves would continue to speak to the Jews." 
Galatians2:9 James, Peter and John understood that God had chosen to give this special job to me. They are the leaders that the church in Jerusalem respects. And they were happy to accept Barnabas and me as their friends. They agreed that we should take God's message to the Gentiles. They themselves would continue to speak to the Jews." 
Galatians2:9 James, Peter and John understood that God had chosen to give this special job to me. They are the leaders that the church in Jerusalem respects. And they were happy to accept Barnabas and me as their friends. They agreed that we should take God's message to the Gentiles. They themselves would continue to speak to the Jews." 
Galatians2:10 They only asked us to do this: we should remember to help the poor people among their group. This is something that I myself wanted very much to do. 
Galatians2:11 But later, when Peter came to Antioch, I spoke against him. I told him clearly that he had done something wrong." 
Galatians2:12 When he first arrived in Antioch, Peter had been eating meals with the Gentile believers there. Then James sent some Jewish believers from Jerusalem to Antioch. After those men had arrived, Peter started to keep himself separate from the Gentiles. He stopped eating meals with them. He was afraid of those Jews who wanted to circumcise the Gentile believers." 
Galatians2:12 When he first arrived in Antioch, Peter had been eating meals with the Gentile believers there. Then James sent some Jewish believers from Jerusalem to Antioch. After those men had arrived, Peter started to keep himself separate from the Gentiles. He stopped eating meals with them. He was afraid of those Jews who wanted to circumcise the Gentile believers." 
Galatians2:13 The other Jewish believers in Antioch also did what Peter did. They became hypocrites like him. Even Barnabas agreed and he copied their example. 
Galatians2:14 But I could see that they were wrong to do this. They were not living in a way that agrees with God's true message. So I spoke to Peter in front of all of them. I said to him, ‘You were born as a Jew, but you have been living like a Gentile. As a believer, you no longer obey all the Jewish rules. So do not try to make Gentile believers obey those Jewish rules.’" 
Galatians2:15 We were born as Jewish people. We are not Gentiles who have never obeyed God's rules. 
Galatians2:16 But we do not become right with God because we obey his Law. We know that. A person only becomes right with God when they believe in Jesus Christ. And we, as Jewish believers, have believed in Christ Jesus. We trust in what Christ has done. Because of that, we have become right with God. It is not because we obey God's Law that he accepts us. Nobody becomes right with God only because they obey the rules in God's Law." 
Galatians2:17 So, we Jews become right with God when we believe in Christ. As a result, we realize that we may not always obey all the Jewish rules. But that does not mean that Christ causes us to do wrong things. Certainly, it does not mean that!" 
Galatians2:18 I would really be doing something wrong if I tried to obey all those rules again. I would be building again something that I had destroyed. That would really be against God's Law. 
Galatians2:19 God's Law showed me that I could never obey all its rules. So I became like a dead person, free from the authority of those rules. That means that I can now live to please God." 
Galatians2:20 Christ died on the cross on my behalf. It is as if I died there with him. So I do not live my own life any more. Instead, Christ lives in me. That is the life that I now live in my body. I live because I trust what Christ, the Son of God, has done for me. He loved me so much that he died on my behalf." 
Galatians2:21 So I do not refuse to accept the kind gift of God. If the rules of God's Law could make me right with him, then Christ would have died for no reason!" 
Galatians3:1 You Christians in Galatia are foolish! Someone has taught you to believe crazy ideas! I taught you clearly that Jesus Christ died on the cross as a sacrifice on our behalf. You understood that. 
Galatians3:2 I only want you to tell me one thing: When you received God's Spirit, was it because you had obeyed the rules of God's Law? No! You received God's Spirit because you believed the message about Christ." 
Galatians3:3 Do not think like fools! You first became believers by the help of God's Spirit. So do not think that you can use your own human strength to complete God's work. 
Galatians3:4 You have suffered in many ways as believers. Surely this could not be without any good purpose. 
Galatians3:5 God gives you the gift of his Spirit. He also does powerful miracles among you. But he does not do these things because you obey the rules of his Law. No, he does them because you believed the message about Christ." 
Galatians3:6 Think about our ancestor Abraham. The Bible says, ‘Abraham believed God. As a result, God accepted Abraham as right with him’." 
Galatians3:7 So you should understand who Abraham's children really are. They are the people who trust God. 
Galatians3:8 The Bible already said what would happen at a future time. It said that God would make the Gentiles right with himself, if they believed in him. God showed this good news to Abraham a long time before it happened. He said to Abraham, ‘I will bless people from all nations because of you.’" 
Galatians3:9 So God did not bless only Abraham when he trusted God. God also blesses all people who trust him as Abraham did. 
Galatians3:10 Some people try to obey all the rules of God's Law. They think that they will become right with God if they do this very well. But those people are under a curse of God's punishment. It is written in the Bible: ‘God will curse anyone who does not continue to obey all the rules in his Law.’ 
Galatians3:11 We know that the Law cannot cause anyone to become right with God. The Bible says, ‘The righteous person will live because he trusts God.’" 
Galatians3:12 But the Law does not tell people to trust God. It tells people about all the things that they must do. The Law says, ‘The person who obeys all the rules in God's Law will live’." 
Galatians3:13 So God's Law puts us under a curse, because we have not completely obeyed it. But Christ took that curse away from us, because God punished him instead of us. The Bible says, ‘If someone's body is hanging on a tree, it shows that God has cursed him.’" 
Galatians3:14 Christ died on the cross so that God would bless the Gentiles, as he promised to Abraham. And if we believe in Christ, we can receive God's Spirit that he promised." 
Galatians3:15 My Christian friends, I will use an example from our lives. Two people may make an agreement together and they both agree to it properly. If they do that, nobody else can change that agreement. Nobody can take away its authority." 
Galatians3:16 In the same way, God promised to bless Abraham and Abraham's descendant. The Bible does not say ‘descendants’. It does not speak about ‘many people’. No, God promised to bless Abraham's descendant. He speaks about one person, and that person is Christ." 
Galatians3:17 What I mean is this: God made an agreement with Abraham. He promised to bless him. Then, 430 years later, God gave his Law to Moses for his people. But that Law could not take away the authority of God's covenant with Abraham. It could not stop what God had already promised." 
Galatians3:18 God has promised to give good things to his children. But that does not happen as a result of God's Law. If that were true, then we would not receive God's good things as a result of his promise. But God gave those good things to Abraham as a gift, because he had promised to bless Abraham." 
Galatians3:19 So why did God give his Law to his people after his promise to Abraham? He gave his Law to show them which things are wrong. It would have authority until Abraham's special descendant would come. This was the descendant that God had promised to bless. God used angels to give his Law to his people. It was Moses who received the Law from God. Moses then took it to God's people. 
Galatians3:20 But God himself gave his promise to Abraham. It was not necessary to have somebody between them, like Moses." 
Galatians3:21 So does God's Law work against God's promises? No, certainly that is not true! It is not possible for the rules of any law to give us life with God. If that were possible, then God would have accepted us as right if we obeyed those rules." 
Galatians3:22 But the Bible says that sin has power over everyone. Nobody can be free from that. This means that we can only receive what God has promised when we trust Jesus Christ. God gives his promise to those who believe. 
Galatians3:23 Before God showed us the way of faith, the Law had authority over us. God's Law kept us safe, until God showed us that we must believe in Christ." 
Galatians3:24 God's Law was like our guide. It kept us safe until Christ came. Then God could accept us as right because we trusted Christ. 
Galatians3:25 But the way of faith in Christ has now come. So we do not need God's Law to keep us safe any longer. 
Galatians3:26 All of you are God's children because you believe in Christ Jesus. 
Galatians3:27 They baptized you as believers in Christ. This means that you have put on Christ, like someone who puts on new clothes." 
Galatians3:28 It does not matter whether you are a Jew or a Gentile. It does not matter whether you are a slave or a free person. It does not matter whether you are a man or a woman. You all belong together because you all belong to Christ Jesus. 
Galatians3:29 And if you belong to Christ, then you are descendants of Abraham. Because of that, you will receive all the good things that God promised to Abraham." 
Galatians4:1 I will explain it like this. Think about a son who will one day receive what belongs to his father. While he is still a child, he is no better than a slave in the family. This is true, even though all his father's things belong to him." 
Galatians4:2 He has to wait until the time that his father has decided. Until then, the son has to obey his teachers and the guides who take care of him." 
Galatians4:3 In the same way, we were children like that in God's family. The spiritual powers that rule this world controlled us as their slaves." 
Galatians4:4 But when the time that God had decided arrived, he sent his Son into the world. A human mother gave birth to him. He was born a Jew, under the authority of God's Law." 
Galatians4:5 In this way, he made us free from the authority of the Law. Before that, we were like slaves under the Law. But God's Son paid our debt, so that God would accept us as his own children." 
Galatians4:6 Because we are his children, God has sent his Son's Spirit to live in us. His Spirit causes us to call God, ‘Father, my Father’." 
Galatians4:7 So you are not slaves any more, but you are God's children. And because of that, you will receive all the good things that God has promised." 
Galatians4:8 Before, when you did not know God, you served false gods. They were not gods at all, but you were their slaves." 
Galatians4:9 But now you do know God. I should really say that God knows you. So you must not turn back to serve the powers that rule this world. They are weak and their ideas are useless. Do not choose to become their slaves again! 
Galatians4:10 You obey rules about certain special days, or months, or seasons, or years. That is how you want to please God." 
Galatians4:11 So I worry about you. I worked very hard to help you. I do not want my work to have no results. 
Galatians4:12 My Christian friends, please become like me! Please do this, because when I was with you, I became like you. You did not then do anything wrong to me." 
Galatians4:13 Remember that I first came to you because I was ill. That was when I first told God's good news to you. 
Galatians4:14 I caused trouble for you because I was ill. But you did not insult me. You did not tell me to go away. Instead, you welcomed me as if I were an angel from God, or even Christ Jesus himself." 
Galatians4:15 But now you do not seem to be happy with me. I can say that you would have pulled out your own eyes to help me. You would have given them to me, if that had been possible." 
Galatians4:16 But now I seem to have become your enemy! Is that because I am telling you God's true message? 
Galatians4:17 Those false teachers try very much to please you. But they do not really want what is good for you. They want to keep you for themselves. Then you will only want to listen to them. 
Galatians4:18 If someone really wants to help you, it is good for them to try to please you. But they should do it all the time, not only when I am there with you." 
Galatians4:19 My children, I feel like a mother who is giving birth to you again. I will continue to feel that kind of pain until you have Christ's nature in your lives." 
Galatians4:20 I would like very much to be there with you now. Then I could change the way that I speak to you. As it is, I do not know the best way to help you." 
Galatians4:21 I say this to you people who want God's Law to have authority over you. Think carefully about what that Law really says. 
Galatians4:22 The Bible says that Abraham had two sons. The mother of one of them was a slave. The mother of the other son was a free woman. 
Galatians4:23 Hagar was a slave. Her son was born as a result of what Abraham himself decided. But Abraham's wife, Sarah, gave birth to the other son. That son was born as a result of what God had promised to Abraham." 
Galatians4:24 These two women are like pictures of two covenants that God made with his people. Hagar is like the covenant that God made on Mount Sinai. That covenant causes people to become slaves. 
Galatians4:25 Hagar is like a picture of Mount Sinai in Arabia. Also, she is like the city of Jerusalem here on earth now, because that city and its people are slaves under the authority of God's Law." 
Galatians4:26 But Abraham's wife, Sarah, is a picture of the new Jerusalem that is above. Sarah was a free person, not a slave, and she is like our mother." 
Galatians4:27 It says in the Bible: ‘Be happy, you woman who could not have any children! You have never known the pain of a child's birth. But now shout loudly because you are so happy! Yes, be happy, because the lonely woman now has more children than the woman who has a husband.’" 
Galatians4:28 You, my Christian friends, are like Sarah's son, Isaac. Like him, you became God's children as a result of God's promise." 
Galatians4:29 Isaac was born because of God's Spirit. The son who was born in the human way gave much trouble to Isaac at that time. You who are believers now receive the same kind of trouble. 
Galatians4:30 But this is what it says in the Bible: ‘Send away the woman who is a slave and her son. That woman's son will never receive anything from his father. The son of the free woman will receive all those good things.’ 
Galatians4:31 So, my Christian friends, we are not children of the woman who is a slave. No, we are children of the free woman." 
Galatians5:1 Christ has made us free so that we can be really free! So be strong in your minds. Do not let yourselves become slaves to the Jewish rules again. 
Galatians5:2 Listen carefully! I, Paul, tell you this. If you allow someone to circumcise you, then Christ will be worth nothing to you." 
Galatians5:3 I will say it again very clearly. Every man who lets someone circumcise him must then obey all the Jewish rules. 
Galatians5:4 Some of you think that God will accept you as right if you obey all the rules of his Law. But if you think that, you have made yourselves separate from Christ. You have turned away from God's grace." 
Galatians5:5 But if we believe in Christ, we are sure that God will accept us as right with him. As we wait for that, God's Spirit helps us to know that it is true." 
Galatians5:6 We belong to Christ Jesus. So it does not matter whether anyone has circumcised us or not. The only thing that matters is that we trust in Christ. And as a result we will love other people. 
Galatians5:7 Like good runners in a race, you were doing very well! You should not have let anyone turn you away from God's true message." 
Galatians5:8 It is not God who has caused you to change what you believe. No! God is the one who has chosen you to belong to him. 
Galatians5:9 People say this: ‘Only a small amount of yeast in the flour will cause a loaf of bread to grow big.’ 
Galatians5:10 But the Lord helps me to feel sure about you. I know that you will agree with what I say about this. But as for the man who is confusing you, God will punish him. It does not matter who he is, God will punish him." 
Galatians5:11 My Christian friends, I certainly do not teach that believers must be circumcised. If I still teach that, why do people still cause me to suffer? My message about Christ's death on the cross would not cause anyone to become angry." 
Galatians5:12 Those people who are causing trouble and want to circumcise you should cut their own bodies even more! Yes, that is what they should do!" 
Galatians5:13 My Christian friends, God has chosen you to serve him as free people. But you are still weak and human. So you are not free to do anything that you might want to do. Instead, you must serve one another, because you love each other." 
Galatians5:14 One rule brings together all the rules in God's Law. That one rule says, ‘Love other people as much as you love yourself.’" 
Galatians5:15 So do not live like wild animals. Wild animals fight and they eat each other. If you attack each other like that, be very careful! You may destroy one another completely." 
Galatians5:16 So this is what I say: Let God's Spirit show you how to live in a good way. Then you will not do the wrong things that your weak human nature may want to do. 
Galatians5:17 The things that your human nature wants to do are completely different from the things that God's Spirit wants. The things that God's Spirit wants are completely different from the things that our human nature wants. Our own thoughts fight against what God's Spirit wants us to do. As a result, you are not free to do the things that you really want to do." 
Galatians5:18 But if God's Spirit leads you, then the rules of God's Law do not control you." 
Galatians5:19 Everyone knows the kinds of bad things that human nature wants to do. People have sex with people that they are not married to. They do things that are bad and disgusting. 
Galatians5:20 They worship idols. They do magic to hurt other people. They become enemies and they fight one another. They are jealous of other people. They become very angry. They want to please themselves and to be important. They cause trouble. They divide people into separate groups. 
Galatians5:21 They want things that belong to other people. They are drunks. They have wild parties. And they like to do many other bad things like these. So I warn you again, as I have already warned you before. People who continue to do these bad things will not receive the blessings of the kingdom of God." 
Galatians5:22 But God's Spirit causes us to live in a different way. We love other people. We are happy and we have peace in our minds. We are patient, kind and good. People can trust us to do what is right." 
Galatians5:23 We respect other people and we control ourselves properly. God's Spirit helps us to live in that way. There is no law that says these things are wrong. 
Galatians5:24 We belong to Christ. As a result, we no longer obey our weak human nature. We do not do the bad things that our thoughts want us to do. It is as if we have killed those thoughts on the cross." 
Galatians5:25 Now it is God's Spirit that gives us life. So we must let God's Spirit lead us in the way that we live. 
Galatians5:26 We must not become proud. We must not be jealous of each other, so that we cause trouble to one another." 
Galatians6:1 My friends, if you see that someone among you is doing something wrong, you must warn them. Those of you who have God's Spirit should warn that person. Show them how to live in a good way. But you must be kind and patient with them. Be very careful yourselves, so that it does not cause you to do wrong things too." 
Galatians6:2 Help each other when someone has problems. If you do that, you will be obeying Christ's rule." 
Galatians6:3 You must not think that you are too important to help other people. If you are not really so important, you are deceiving yourself." 
Galatians6:4 Everyone should think carefully about the things that they themselves do. If those things are good, that is a reason to be proud. Someone like that does not need to think about whether they are better than anyone else." 
Galatians6:5 Each person must live in a way that they know is right for them. 
Galatians6:6 Everyone who is learning about God's message should share all his good things with his teacher. 
Galatians6:7 Do not deceive yourselves. Nobody can make God seem foolish. Think about a farmer who plants seeds in his field. The same kind of crops will grow as the seeds which he plants. That will be his harvest. 
Galatians6:8 It is the same in our lives. A person may do the things that please his own human nature. The harvest from their human nature will be punishment and death. Or a person may do the things that please God's Spirit. The harvest from God's Spirit will be life with God for ever. 
Galatians6:9 We must not become tired as we do things that are good. We must not become so weak that we stop. Then we will receive a good harvest at the proper time. 
Galatians6:10 Because of this, we must help everyone when we have the chance. Certainly we must do good things to help our friends who believe in Christ, as we do." 
Galatians6:11 Now I am using my own hand to write these last words to you myself. You can see how large the letters are! 
Galatians6:12 Some people want to make you obey the Jewish rules. They say that you must let someone circumcise you. They want people to think that they are important. They do not want to receive any trouble from others. So they are afraid to teach that Christ's death on the cross is enough to save us. 
Galatians6:13 Even those men who are circumcised do not obey all the Jewish rules. They want to circumcise you so that they can boast about you. They want to show that they have authority over your bodies. 
Galatians6:14 But I only want to boast about one thing. That is our Lord Jesus Christ's death on the cross. Because of that, the things that belong to this world have become dead to me. I have also become dead to those things." 
Galatians6:15 It does not matter whether anyone has circumcised you or not. The important thing is that God has made you a new person. 
Galatians6:16 I pray that God will bless everyone who lives by that rule. May God give them peace in their minds and be kind to them. I pray this for all who belong to God's true people. 
Galatians6:17 I want to receive no more trouble from anyone after this. The marks on my body show that I am a true servant of Jesus. 
Galatians6:18 My Christian friends, I pray that our Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be very kind to you. May he help you in your spirits. Amen." 
Ephesians1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. God chose me to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. I am writing to you, God's own people who live in Ephesus. You are those who continue to believe in Christ Jesus, and so you belong to him." 
Ephesians1:2 I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. I pray that they will give you peace in your minds." 
Ephesians1:3 We praise the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He has blessed us in very many ways. Because we belong to Christ, we enjoy all the good things that come from heaven. God blesses our spirits with those good things." 
Ephesians1:4 Before God made the world, he chose us to be his people because of Christ. He chose us so that we would please him. Because we belong to Christ, God accepts us as completely good. This shows how much he loves us." 
Ephesians1:5 Long ago, he already decided to accept us into his family as his children, because of Jesus Christ. He chose us to belong to him because it made him very happy." 
Ephesians1:6 As a result, we praise him, because he is great and he has been so kind to us. He has given us so much because of his Son, whom he loves very much." 
Ephesians1:7 When Christ died as a sacrifice on the cross, he paid the price to make us free. Because of Christ's death on our behalf, God has forgiven our sins. God is so very kind that he has done all this for us!" 
Ephesians1:8 Even more than that, God has shown how wise he is. He understands what we need." 
Ephesians1:9 He has let us know his great purpose, which had been a secret before. That plan would make him very happy. It would be possible because of Christ." 
Ephesians1:10 God will make that plan happen when the time is completely right. At that time, he will bring everything together so that Christ rules all of them. That includes the things that are in heaven, and the things that are on earth." 
Ephesians1:11 God is able to make all things happen just like he decides. He chose us to be his own people, because we are united with Christ. In the beginning, God had already decided that this was his purpose." 
Ephesians1:12 We were the first people to trust in Christ, God's Messiah. God wanted us to show how great he is. He wanted people to praise him because of us." 
Ephesians1:13 You believers in Ephesus also heard God's true message. You heard the good news about how God saves you. When you believed in Christ, God gave his Holy Spirit to you. He had promised to do that, to show that you belong to him." 
Ephesians1:14 God has put his Holy Spirit inside us now. As a result, we know that one day we will receive all the good things that God has promised. At that time we will be completely free, because we belong to God. So we praise God and we say that he is great!" 
Ephesians1:15 People have told me that you continue to trust in the Lord Jesus. They have told me that you love all God's people. Because I have heard these good things about you," 
Ephesians1:16 I am always thanking God because of you. Whenever I pray to God, I always ask him to help you." 
Ephesians1:17 God is very great! He is the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that his Holy Spirit will make you wise. I pray that his Holy Spirit will help you to understand what God is like. Then you will know God better and better. 
Ephesians1:18 I pray that God will bring light into your minds. Then you will understand about the many good things that he has prepared for you. You know that you will receive those things because he has chosen you to be his people. God has prepared very valuable things for you in heaven. 
Ephesians1:19 You will also know how very powerful God is. He uses that power to help us now, as we trust in Christ. God's power is greater than anything we could ever know." 
Ephesians1:20 He used that power to raise Christ, so that he became alive again after his death. Then he gave Christ a place to sit at his right side in heaven." 
Ephesians1:21 There, Christ rules over every other ruler and leader. He rules over everything else that has authority. He is greater than any power which people respect. That is true for the rulers of this world now, and also the rulers of the world that will come." 
Ephesians1:22 God has put all things under Christ's authority. He has made Christ the ruler over all things. He has done this to help his people, the church." 
Ephesians1:23 The church is like Christ's body and he is its head. Christ fills all things everywhere and he causes the church to become complete. 
Ephesians2:1 Remember how you lived before. You did not obey God and you did bad things. As a result, you were dead in your spirits." 
Ephesians2:2 You lived in a bad way, like the people who belong to this world. You were obeying Satan, who rules the powerful spirits in the air. Those spirits are working now in everyone who refuses to obey God." 
Ephesians2:3 At one time, all of us lived like those people. We did whatever bad things our bodies wanted to do. If our thoughts made us want to do something, we did it. Because we were like that, God was angry with us. He should have punished us, just like everyone else." 
Ephesians2:4 But God is very good and kind! He loved us very much. 
Ephesians2:5 Because of our sins, we were dead in our spirits. But God gave us a new life, because we are united with Christ. Yes, God has saved you because he is so kind." 
Ephesians2:6 Also, God raised us up with Christ, so that we now sit with Christ in heaven. God has done this for us because we are united with Christ Jesus." 
Ephesians2:7 He wanted to show, for all future time, how very kind he is. He has helped us so much because of what Christ Jesus has done." 
Ephesians2:8 When you believed in Jesus, God saved you because he is very kind. You could not save yourselves, but that is God's gift to you." 
Ephesians2:9 He has not saved you as a result of any good things that you have done. So nobody has any reason to be proud about it. 
Ephesians2:10 It is God who has worked in us to make us what we are. He has given us a new life because we are united with Christ Jesus. He saved us so that now we can do good things in our lives. Those are good things that he has already prepared for us to do. 
Ephesians2:11 So you who were born as Gentiles should remember what you were like before. Jews insulted you because nobody has circumcised you. They themselves are proud that men have circumcised them as God's people. 
Ephesians2:12 At that time, you did not know about Christ, God's special Messiah. You did not belong to the nation of Israel's people. You did not know about the good things that God had promised to his people. You were living in this world with nothing good to hope for. You were living without God's help." 
Ephesians2:13 You were far away from God. But now, God has brought you near to himself, because you belong to Christ Jesus. That is possible because of Christ's death on the cross as a sacrifice." 
Ephesians2:14 It is Christ himself who has brought peace between Jews and Gentiles. He has brought those two groups together, to be one group. He has destroyed the things that made them separate. As a result, they are no longer enemies." 
Ephesians2:15 When his body died on the cross, Christ took away the power of the Jewish laws and rules. In that way, he made the two groups join together as one new group of people. As a result, he caused them to have peace." 
Ephesians2:16 As a single group, Christ brought Jews and Gentiles back to God. He stopped them from hating each other. He did this by his death on the cross." 
Ephesians2:17 When Christ came, he told people God's good news about peace. He told that message to you Gentiles, who were far away from God. He also told it to us Jews, who were near to God." 
Ephesians2:18 Now we all have received the same Holy Spirit, because of what Christ has done for us. As a result, we can all come near to God the Father." 
Ephesians2:19 So now, you Gentiles are not strangers among God's people any more. You belong to the group of God's people that he rules. You belong to God's family, as all God's people do." 
Ephesians2:20 You are like a house that God is building for himself. God's apostles and his prophets are like the foundation under the house. Jesus Christ is like the most important stone in the house. 
Ephesians2:21 He makes the whole building stand together strongly. In that way, all God's people together become like a special house that belongs to the Lord." 
Ephesians2:22 Because you belong to Christ, God is building you all together to become his house. That is where God lives by his Spirit." 
Ephesians3:1 That is why I pray for you. I, Paul, am in prison because I serve Christ Jesus. He has sent me to help you Gentiles." 
Ephesians3:2 You must have heard that God has chosen me to do that. He has been very kind to give me this work to help you. 
Ephesians3:3 God has clearly shown to me his true purpose. That was a secret before, but God has helped me to know it. I have written a few words about this already." 
Ephesians3:4 When you read those words, you will be able to understand. I have come to know God's true message about Christ." 
Ephesians3:5 God did not tell this secret message to the people who lived before us. But now the Holy Spirit has shown it to God's apostles and prophets. 
Ephesians3:6 This is the message of God's good news: Gentiles, as well as Jews, may receive the good things that God has prepared for his children. We may all belong to the same group of God's people, like we are his body. Everyone who is united with Christ Jesus receives the good things that God has promised." 
Ephesians3:7 I tell that good news to other people, because God chose me to serve him in that way. That was God's gift to me, because he is so kind. God uses his great power to help me in that work." 
Ephesians3:8 I am the least important of all God's people. But God has given this special work to me because he is so kind. He has sent me to tell his good news to the Gentiles. Then they know about the many valuable things that Christ has prepared for us. 
Ephesians3:9 I help everyone to know how God makes his purpose happen. God himself created all things, and he has hidden this secret during past times." 
Ephesians3:10 But now God wants the people of his church to show everyone how wise he is in every way. He wants the spiritual rulers and everything that has authority in the heavens to know this. 
Ephesians3:11 This had always been God's purpose, from the beginning of all things. And it was our Lord Christ Jesus who made it happen." 
Ephesians3:12 Because we are united with Christ, we can come near to God. We are not afraid to do that. We can be sure that God will accept us, because we trust in Christ." 
Ephesians3:13 So do not be tired or afraid. I am now suffering so that I can help you. So you should be strong, so that God will bless you." 
Ephesians3:14 Yes, that is why I pray for you. I go down on my knees to pray to God, our Father." 
Ephesians3:15 Every family, those in heaven and those on earth, receives its true name from him." 
Ephesians3:16 I pray that God will cause you to be strong in your spirits. God has great and valuable things in heaven to help you. I pray that God's Spirit will help you with God's own power. 
Ephesians3:17 I pray that Christ will make his home in you, as you believe in him. Then you will know God's love very well. You will be like trees that have roots which go down deep into God's love. That will make you strong." 
Ephesians3:18 Then you will understand, with all God's people, how much Christ loves us. That love is very wide and long and high and deep!" 
Ephesians3:19 Christ's love for us is so great that nobody can ever completely know it. As you understand this more and more, God's own nature will completely fill you." 
Ephesians3:20 We praise God, who causes his power to work in us. In that way, he is able to do much more than we could ever ask for. He can do much more than we could even think about." 
Ephesians3:21 We want all God's people to know that God is great! Everyone who belongs to his church and who trusts in Christ Jesus should show how great God is! We should praise him always and for ever. Amen. 
Ephesians4:1 Because I serve the Lord, I am here in prison. I really want you to live as God's own people should live. God has called you to come to him. He has chosen you to be his own people." 
Ephesians4:2 Do not think that you are better than other people. Always be kind and patient with each other. Love one another, so that you do not quickly become angry with each other." 
Ephesians4:3 Do your best to let God's Spirit keep you united. You belong together so live in peace with each other. 
Ephesians4:4 As God's people, you are like one body. There is one Spirit that gives you life. God has chosen you to be his own people. So you all expect to receive the same great things from God." 
Ephesians4:5 There is one Lord. There is one true message that we must believe. There is one baptism. 
Ephesians4:6 There is one God, who is the Father of all of us. He has authority over all of us. He works through all of us. He is in all of us." 
Ephesians4:7 God has been kind to all of us. Each of us has received a special gift, just as Christ has decided to give us." 
Ephesians4:8 This is what it says about him: ‘When he went up to the highest place, he led many prisoners with him. Then he gave gifts to his people.’" 
Ephesians4:9 It says: ‘He went up.’ That must mean that Christ had also come down. He came down to a lower place, the earth." 
Ephesians4:10 So the man who came down is also the man who went up, high above all the heavens. He did that so that he would fill everything everywhere." 
Ephesians4:11 It was Christ who chose to give different gifts to his people. He chose some to be apostles. He chose some to speak messages from God. He chose some to tell God's good news to many people. He chose some to take care of his people, and to teach them." 
Ephesians4:12 He gave all these gifts to help God's people to serve him in different ways. As a result, the church, which is like Christ's body, would become strong." 
Ephesians4:13 In that way, all of us will become united, like one person. We will all believe in Jesus as the Son of God. We will all know him. We will become like a man who has grown up well. We will be completely as God wants us to be, just like Christ himself." 
Ephesians4:14 So then we will not be like children any more. Our minds will not become confused by strange ideas. We will not change what we believe, from one thing to another. Some people teach things that are not true. They do clever things to deceive people. But we will not agree with their false message." 
Ephesians4:15 Instead, we will love each other and we will speak God's true message. As a result, we will become more and more like Christ in every way. He is the head of his body, which is the church." 
Ephesians4:16 As its head, he helps the whole body to grow well. Each part joins with the other parts so that the whole body becomes strong. As each separate part does its proper work, we love each other more and more." 
Ephesians4:17 So I say this to you. I am sure that I have the Lord's authority to say it. You must not live any longer like the Gentile people who do not know God. They do whatever their silly ideas teach them to do. 
Ephesians4:18 They cannot understand God's true message because their minds are in the dark. They have not accepted the life that God gives. They have decided that they do not want to know about God. They do not even try to understand. 
Ephesians4:19 They do not feel ashamed when they do all kinds of disgusting things. They do more and more bad things just to please themselves. 
Ephesians4:20 But when you learned about Christ, you did not learn to do things like that!" 
Ephesians4:21 I am sure that you have heard about him properly. People taught you the true message that comes from Jesus. 
Ephesians4:22 They taught you to change the way that you live. You must remove the nature that you had before. That old nature deceived you. As a result, you wanted to do things that would destroy you." 
Ephesians4:23 Instead, let God's Spirit make you think in a new way." 
Ephesians4:24 Take up the new nature that God has prepared for you. That nature is like God's own nature. Then you will live in a truly good way that pleases God. 
Ephesians4:25 So you must stop telling lies. Each of you must say only true things to one another. Remember that all of us belong to one another, like parts of the same body." 
Ephesians4:26 When you are angry, do not do anything bad as a result. Once the day comes to an end, do not continue to be angry." 
Ephesians4:27 Do not give the devil a chance to hurt you like that. 
Ephesians4:28 Any of you who robbed people before must now stop taking things. Instead, you should work hard with your own hands. Then you will be able to share what you have with people who are poor." 
Ephesians4:29 Do not say bad things that hurt or insult people. Instead, say only good things that will help people. Your words should help people to become strong when they hear them." 
Ephesians4:30 Do not do anything that will make God's Holy Spirit sad. God gave his Holy Spirit to you to show that you belong to him. As a result you know that God will make you completely free one day. 
Ephesians4:31 Do not be jealous of other people. Do not become angry or shout at them. Do not quarrel with other people or insult them. Do not do anything or say anything that will hurt other people. 
Ephesians4:32 Instead, help each other and be kind to each other. Forgive one another. Remember that God has forgiven you because of what Christ has done." 
Ephesians5:1 You are God's children and he loves you very much. So you must try to be like him. 
Ephesians5:2 Show that you love other people. Remember how much Christ loved us. He gave himself as a sacrifice on our behalf. He offered himself in a way that pleased God, like a sacrifice with a lovely smell." 
Ephesians5:3 So, as God's people, you must never have sex in a wrong way. Do not do any kind of bad thing like that. Do not want to have many things for your own pleasure. That is not how God's people should live." 
Ephesians5:4 Do not speak in a way which uses disgusting words. Do not talk about silly things, like fools do. It is not right for God's people to talk like that. Instead, you should speak in a way which shows that you are thanking God." 
Ephesians5:5 You can be sure about this: If anyone has sex in a wrong way, that person does not belong to God's people. Nobody who does any kind of disgusting thing belongs to God's people. People who want many things just to please themselves are like people who worship an idol. They also do not belong to God's people. Nobody like that belongs to the kingdom where Christ and God rule. They will not receive the good things that God has prepared for his people." 
Ephesians5:6 Do not let anyone have a chance to deceive you with a false message about those kinds of bad things. God will certainly punish people who do not obey him. 
Ephesians5:7 So keep away from those kinds of people. 
Ephesians5:8 Once your minds were completely in the dark. But now you belong to the Lord. As a result, you have become full of light. So now you must live as people who belong to the light." 
Ephesians5:9 The light helps you to live in a way that is good, right and true." 
Ephesians5:10 You should learn more and more to do the things that please the Lord. 
Ephesians5:11 People whose minds are in the dark do things that have no good purpose. Keep away from wrong things like that. Instead, show how bad those things really are." 
Ephesians5:12 People like that should be ashamed of the things that they do secretly. Those things are too bad for us even to talk about. 
Ephesians5:13 But when God's light shines on something, people can see clearly its true nature." 
Ephesians5:14 Everything that becomes clear to see is in the light. That is why it says: ‘Wake up, you people who are asleep! Rise up from among the dead people! Then Christ will shine his light on you.’" 
Ephesians5:15 So you must be very careful how you live. Live like people who are wise. Do not live like fools. 
Ephesians5:16 Many bad things are happening in these days. So, whenever you have a chance to do something good, do as much as you can." 
Ephesians5:17 Do not live like fools. But instead, understand what the Lord wants you to do." 
Ephesians5:18 Do not drink too much wine so that you become drunk. That will destroy your life. Instead, let God's Spirit fill you." 
Ephesians5:19 He will help you to speak to each other with all kinds of spiritual songs. Sing psalms from the Bible, and Christian songs. Praise the Lord with songs from inside yourselves." 
Ephesians5:20 And always thank God the Father for everything, by our Lord Jesus Christ's name." 
Ephesians5:21 Serve one another to show that you respect Christ as your master. 
Ephesians5:22 Wives, obey your own husbands, as you obey the Lord." 
Ephesians5:23 A husband has authority over his wife, in the same way that Christ has authority over the church. The church is like Christ's body. As its head, he saves her." 
Ephesians5:24 As the church serves Christ as its master, so wives should serve their husbands in everything." 
Ephesians5:25 Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church. He even agreed to die on its behalf." 
Ephesians5:26 He did that to make us completely clean, as the people of God. It was like he washed us with water, as he brought God's message to us." 
Ephesians5:27 Christ himself did this to bring us to himself as a beautiful group of his people. His church would belong to him completely. It would be pure, without anything bad to spoil it." 
Ephesians5:28 So husbands should love their wives, just as they love their own bodies. A man who loves his wife shows that he loves himself." 
Ephesians5:29 There is nobody who hates his own body. Everyone feeds his body and he takes care of it. In the same way, the church is like Christ's body that he takes care of." 
Ephesians5:30 We are like the parts of Christ's body. 
Ephesians5:31 The Bible says this: ‘When a man marries, he leaves his father and his mother. Instead, God joins the man and his wife together. The two people become like one body.’" 
Ephesians5:32 This is God's secret and it is difficult to understand. But I am saying that it teaches us about Christ and the church. 
Ephesians5:33 But each one of you husbands should understand this: love your own wife as you love yourself. And every wife among you must respect her husband. 
Ephesians6:1 You who are children, obey your parents. Because you belong to the Lord, that is the right thing to do." 
Ephesians6:2 God's Law says: ‘Always respect your father and your mother.’ That is the first command of God's Law that also has a promise. 
Ephesians6:3 The promise is this: ‘As a result, you will be happy and you will live for a long time on the earth.’" 
Ephesians6:4 Fathers, do not do things that make your children angry. Instead, teach them carefully as they grow up. Help them to understand the message of the Lord, and help them to obey it." 
Ephesians6:5 You who are slaves, obey your human masters. Respect them and be afraid of them. Work well to help them, as if you were working for Christ as your master." 
Ephesians6:6 Do not do good work only when they can see you. Some people only work to make other people like them. Instead, work well all the time, as slaves who serve Christ. Work in the way that God wants you to work." 
Ephesians6:7 Be happy to obey your human masters. Remember that you are serving the Lord himself, not just other people." 
Ephesians6:8 You know that anyone who does some good thing will receive a good gift from the Lord. This will happen whether that person is a slave or a free person. 
Ephesians6:9 You who are masters, be good to your slaves in the same way. Do not frighten them with punishment. Remember that both you and your slaves have the same Master in heaven. And he is always fair when he judges people, whoever they are." 
Ephesians6:10 At the end of my letter, I want to say this to you: Be strong with the strength of the Lord. Let his great power make you strong." 
Ephesians6:11 Use all the help that God gives to us. Then you can be like a soldier who fights against the devil. You must put on the whole armour that God gives to us. The devil attacks us in clever ways, and we need to be strong." 
Ephesians6:12 We are not fighting against human enemies. Instead, we are fighting against the rulers and the powerful spirits that have authority over this dark world. We are fighting against the evil spirits who live in the heavens." 
Ephesians6:13 Because of that, take all the help that God gives, like it is your armour. Then, when the bad time comes, you will be able to stand strongly. You will not fall. After you have finished everything, you will still be standing strongly in your place." 
Ephesians6:14 So you must stand strongly. This is God's armour that you must wear: God's true message will be like a belt that you tie round your body. Always do what is right. That will be like a metal shirt that you wear to keep your body safe. 
Ephesians6:15 Be prepared to tell people the good news about peace with God. That will be like shoes on your feet. 
Ephesians6:16 As well as all that, have faith to trust God. That will be like a shield that you hold in front of you. It will stop the devil from hurting you with his arrows that burn with fire." 
Ephesians6:17 Remember that God has saved you from your sins. That will be like a strong hat that keeps your head safe. Also, use God's message to help you. That will be like a sword that God's Spirit puts in your hand." 
Ephesians6:18 As you stand strongly like that, always pray for God's help. Pray about everything as God's Spirit helps you to pray. For this purpose, watch carefully all the time. Also, continue to pray for all God's people everywhere." 
Ephesians6:19 Please pray for me, too. Pray that God will give me the right message to speak. Pray that I will not be afraid to tell people about God's good news. Pray that I can explain God's secret to them." 
Ephesians6:20 God has sent me to tell people the good news on his behalf. And that is why I am now in prison. So pray that I will speak God's message bravely, as I ought to speak it." 
Ephesians6:21 My Christian friend, Tychicus, will tell you all the news about me. He works hard as the Lord's servant. He will tell you about what is happening here. Then you will know what I am doing and how I am." 
Ephesians6:22 That is the reason why I am sending him to you. I want him to tell you what is happening to us here, so that you will feel stronger." 
Ephesians6:23 I pray that God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ will be good to you who are believers. I pray that you will have peace in your minds. I pray that you will love one another, as you continue to trust Christ." 
Ephesians6:24 I pray that God will help everyone who continues to love our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Philippians1:1 Paul and Timothy write this letter to you. We are servants of Christ Jesus. We are writing to you, God's own people who live in Philippi. You belong to God because you are united with Christ Jesus. We are writing to all of you. This includes the leaders and the deacons in the church there." 
Philippians1:2 We pray that God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. We pray that they will give you peace in your minds. 
Philippians1:3 Every time that I think about you, I thank my God because of you." 
Philippians1:4 I am always praying for you. Every time that I pray for you, I feel very happy." 
Philippians1:5 I am happy because together we tell people the good news about Christ. You have always helped me with that work, since the first day that you yourselves heard the good news." 
Philippians1:6 I know that God has begun to do good things in you. And I am sure that he will continue to work in you. Then, on the day when Jesus Christ returns, his work in you will be finished." 
Philippians1:7 It is right for me to feel like this about all of you, because I love you very much. God has been very kind to all of us. Because you know that, you have continued to help me. You have helped me while I have been here in this prison. You also helped me when I was free and I could teach the good news. I explained to people why the good news is God's true message. Together, we have known how kind God is." 
Philippians1:8 God knows that I very much want to be with all of you. I love you very much, as Christ Jesus himself loves you." 
Philippians1:9 This is what I pray for you. I pray that you will continue to love each other more and more. I pray that you will know God better and better. I pray that you will understand all those things that are true. 
Philippians1:10 Then you will be able to choose what is best in the way that you live. Then, on the day when Christ returns, you will be completely clean. You will not be guilty of any bad thing." 
Philippians1:11 Because of the work that Jesus Christ has done in you, you will be right with God. And your lives will be full of good things. As a result, people will praise God and they will say that he is very great." 
Philippians1:12 My friends, I want you to know this. The trouble that has happened to me has helped more people to know about God's good news." 
Philippians1:13 I am in prison because I am Christ's servant. The soldiers in the king's house and all the people here know that. 
Philippians1:14 Also, because I am in prison, most of the other believers here trust the Lord even more. The Lord has made them brave, so that they are not afraid to speak God's message to people." 
Philippians1:15 It is true that some of these Christians are jealous of me. They want to show that they are better than me. That is why they tell people the message about Christ. But other Christians speak about Christ because they want to help me. 
Philippians1:16 They tell people about him because they love me. They know that God has put me here in this prison. And he wants me to show people that the good news is true. 
Philippians1:17 Those other people speak about Christ because they want to seem important. They do not really want to help people. They just want to cause trouble for me while I am here in this prison. 
Philippians1:18 But it does not matter to me! All of them are telling people about Christ. That is the most important thing. Whether they speak because of wrong reasons or because of right reasons, they are speaking the message about Christ! Because of that, I am happy. Yes, I will continue to be happy." 
Philippians1:19 You are praying for me and Jesus Christ's Spirit is helping me. So I know that what has happened to me will have a good result. Yes, God will rescue me." 
Philippians1:20 I never want to do anything that will cause me to be ashamed. I hope very much that I will never do that. I want to be brave now, as I always have been. In the way that I live, I want to show that Christ is very great. I want to do that if I continue to live. And I want to do that if I die." 
Philippians1:21 Christ is everything that I live for. If I die, that will be even better for me." 
Philippians1:22 But if I continue to live, I will be able to do more good things to help people. I do not know whether it would be better to live or to die. I do not know which to choose." 
Philippians1:23 Both of them seem very good to me. I want to leave this world so that I can be with Christ. That is a much better thing. 
Philippians1:24 But it is necessary for me to live here in this world so that I can help you. 
Philippians1:25 Yes, I am sure that you need me. For that reason, I know that I will continue to live among you. Then I will be able to help you to trust Christ even more. And that will make you even happier." 
Philippians1:26 Then, when I am with you again, you will have an even better reason to thank Christ Jesus." 
Philippians1:27 The most important thing is that you continue to live in a good way. Live in the way that the good news about Christ teaches. I want to know that you agree together about the good news. And that you work together to show others that the good news is true. Whether I come to visit you or not, I want to know that you all help one another like that." 
Philippians1:28 I also want to know that you are not afraid of the people who speak against you. If you are brave, that will be a sign from God. It will show your enemies that they will lose and you will win. God will punish them, but he will save you." 
Philippians1:29 God is helping you to serve Christ well. This means that you believe in Christ. But it also means that you suffer on his behalf. Both of these things are gifts from God. 
Philippians1:30 You are receiving the same kinds of trouble that I myself receive. You saw that when I was with you. Now you hear that it is still happening to me. 
Philippians2:1 You belong to Christ and he helps you to be strong. His love comforts you. You are able to help one another because his Spirit is in you. You can be kind to each other, and you can forgive each other." 
Philippians2:2 Because of that, this is how you can make me completely happy: In your mind, think about things in the same way as each other. Love one another completely. In your spirit, agree with one another. Work together for the same purpose." 
Philippians2:3 In the way that you live, do not just try to help yourself. Do not be proud. Instead, respect other people. Think about other people as more important than yourself." 
Philippians2:4 Do not think only about the things that you want to do for yourself. Each of you should think also about how you can help other people. 
Philippians2:5 Think about things in the same way that Christ Jesus thought: 
Philippians2:6 He had the same nature as God. He was completely equal with God. But he did not try to keep hold of that. 
Philippians2:7 Instead, he chose to leave heaven. He took for himself the nature of a slave. He was born as a human." 
Philippians2:8 And when he lived as a man, he made himself even more humble. He obeyed God completely, so that he died. He even died on a cross!" 
Philippians2:9 Because of that, God raised Jesus Christ to the most important place. God gave him the name that is greater than every other name." 
Philippians2:10 As a result, when people hear Jesus' name, they must worship him. Everyone will have to go down on their knees in front of him. That includes everything that is in heaven, everything on the earth and everything under the earth." 
Philippians2:11 Everyone will say that Jesus Christ is Lord. This will give great honour to God the Father. 
Philippians2:12 So, my friends, you must continue to obey. When I was with you, you always obeyed. Now that I am not with you, that is even more important. God has saved you. You must always live in a way which shows that this is true. Respect God and remember his great power." 
Philippians2:13 It is God himself who is working in you. Now you want to obey him, and he makes you able to do that. You do the things that make God very happy." 
Philippians2:14 Whatever you are doing, do not complain. And do not argue." 
Philippians2:15 Then you will not be guilty of anything that is wrong. You will be clean inside yourselves. You will be living in a completely good way, as God's children should. In this world, you are living among bad people who have turned away from what is good. But you must bring light into this dark place, like stars that shine in the night." 
Philippians2:16 Tell people the true message that can give them life with God. Then I will know that my work among you has had good results. Because of that, I will be very happy on the day when Christ returns." 
Philippians2:17 You believe in Christ, and you are his servants. That is like you are offering yourselves as a sacrifice to God. Perhaps I will soon have to die. Then my blood would be like a drink offering that I am pouring on your sacrifice to please God. So, if I have to die now, I will be happy. And we should all be happy together." 
Philippians2:18 Yes, it is right that you should be happy, and I will also be happy with you." 
Philippians2:19 I want to send Timothy to come to you soon. I hope that the Lord Jesus will let me do that. Then, when Timothy returns to me, he can tell me news about you. And that will make me happy." 
Philippians2:20 Timothy really loves you, as I do. There is nobody else here with me like him." 
Philippians2:21 Everyone else thinks only about themselves. They have no interest in the things that are important to Jesus Christ. 
Philippians2:22 But you know what Timothy is like. He has worked with me like a son works to help his father. Together we have taught people God's good news. 
Philippians2:23 That is why I hope to send him to you soon. But first, I want to know what will happen to me here." 
Philippians2:24 I trust the Lord that I will soon come to you myself. 
Philippians2:25 But I think I must send Epaphroditus to come back to you. He is our true Christian brother. He has worked with me to serve God. We have worked hard, like soldiers. When I needed help, you sent him to me. He has helped me on your behalf." 
Philippians2:26 Now he wants very much to see all of you again. He became very sad, because you heard the message that he was ill." 
Philippians2:27 Certainly, he was very ill and he almost died. But God was kind to him. And God was kind to me too. If Epaphroditus had died, I would have become even more sad." 
Philippians2:28 So I want even more to send him back to you. Then you can be really happy, and I will not feel sad any more." 
Philippians2:29 Be happy to welcome Epaphroditus when he comes. Like you, he belongs to the Lord's people. You should respect people like him and be kind to them." 
Philippians2:30 He nearly died because he was working to serve Christ. He came to help me, because you could not help me yourselves. He was even ready to die so that he could do that on your behalf." 
Philippians3:1 My Christian friends, there are a few more things that I want to say. You belong to the Lord, so be happy! It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you again. And it will help to keep you safe." 
Philippians3:2 Be very careful! Some people are teaching wicked ideas. They say that you must cut your bodies. They are like dangerous dogs. Do not believe them! 
Philippians3:3 But we are those who are truly God's people. And it is not because someone has circumcised us. It is God's own Spirit that leads us to worship God. We thank God because of what Christ Jesus has done for us. We know that it is not human ideas that can save us. 
Philippians3:4 I myself could have trusted those human ideas. Other people may think that they could trust in those things to save them. Then I would have an even better reason to trust in them. 
Philippians3:5 I belong to Israel's people, to Benjamin's tribe. I am a true Jew. They circumcised me when I was eight days old. I was a Pharisee, and I obeyed the Jewish rules very carefully." 
Philippians3:6 I tried very much to please God. So I caused the Christians to suffer. I obeyed the rules of God's Law, and nobody could say that I did anything wrong." 
Philippians3:7 All those ideas seemed very important to me then. But now they are worth nothing to me, because I trust in Christ." 
Philippians3:8 Yes, now that I know Christ Jesus as my Lord, that is the most valuable thing. Nothing else is important at all. I have thrown everything else away, so that I can know Christ. All those other things are like dirt to me. I think about them like that, so that I can know Christ better." 
Philippians3:9 I want to be united with him. Because I believe in Christ, God accepts me as right with him. I know that I cannot become right in any other way, even if I obey all of God's Law. When I trust in Christ, God accepts me as right because of my faith." 
Philippians3:10 Yes, I want to know Christ better and better. I want to know the power which God showed when Christ rose from death. I want to suffer in the way that Christ did. I want to obey God like he did in his death." 
Philippians3:11 Then I hope that I also will become alive again after death. 
Philippians3:12 I am not saying that I have already reached that place in my life. I have not yet completely become the person that God wants me to be. But I am trying very hard to reach that place. That was Christ's purpose when he first chose me to belong to him. 
Philippians3:13 My Christian friends, I do not think that I have reached that place yet. But this is what I do. I do not think about past things that have already happened. Instead, I try hard to reach the things that are still in front." 
Philippians3:14 I am like a runner who wants to reach the end of the race. I run straight towards that place, so that I can win God's gift. Because I belong to Christ Jesus, God has called me to live with him in heaven. That is God's gift to me at the end of my life." 
Philippians3:15 All of us should agree to live like that, if we properly understand God's message. If you think differently about some of these things, God will show you clearly what is right." 
Philippians3:16 But we should continue to live in the way that we already know is right. 
Philippians3:17 My Christian friends, you should live in the way that I do. Carefully watch other people who live like that. We have shown you an example of what is right." 
Philippians3:18 Many people live in a way that shows they do not agree with God's message. I have told you about these people many times before. And now I am crying when I tell you about them. I am very sad, because they hate Christ's death on the cross." 
Philippians3:19 Finally, God will destroy them. Their stomach is what they worship. They are proud of things that should make them ashamed. Their thoughts are full of things that belong to this world." 
Philippians3:20 But as for us, the home where we belong is in heaven. We are waiting for the Lord Jesus Christ to come from there. He is the one who will come from heaven and save us." 
Philippians3:21 He will change these weak bodies that we have now on this earth. He will make them become strong and beautiful, like his own body that he has in heaven. Christ will use his great power to do this. That is the power that he uses to rule over everything." 
Philippians4:1 My dear Christian friends, I love you very much. I want very much to see you again. You make me very happy. You show that my work among you had good results. Please continue to live in a way that pleases the Lord." 
Philippians4:2 I say this to Euodia and to Syntyche: ‘You belong to the Lord, so please agree with each other. Stop arguing.’" 
Philippians4:3 I ask you too, my true friend, please help these two women to agree together. They have worked with me to tell people the good news. They have worked very hard to help me. They worked together with Clement, and with the other people who helped me in the work. All these workers' names are written in God's book of life." 
Philippians4:4 Always be happy because you belong to the Lord. I will say that again, ‘Be happy!’" 
Philippians4:5 Be kind and patient in a way that everyone can see. Remember that the Lord is near. 
Philippians4:6 Do not worry about anything. Instead, pray to God about everything. Ask him to help you with the things that you need. And thank him for his help." 
Philippians4:7 If you do that, God will give you peace in your minds. That peace is so great that nobody can completely understand it. You will not worry or be afraid, because you belong to Christ Jesus." 
Philippians4:8 Now my friends, I want to say this to you. Fill your minds with thoughts about good things. Think about things that are true, clean, right and lovely. Always think about things which people know are very good." 
Philippians4:9 Remember what I have taught you. Remember the message that you heard from me. Remember what you saw when I lived among you. You also must do those same things. God is the one who gives us peace in our minds. He will be with you. 
Philippians4:10 I am very happy that you want to help me again. I praise the Lord for that. I know that you already wanted to help me. But you have not had a chance to do anything until now. 
Philippians4:11 When I say this, it is not because I need anything. I have learned to be happy, whatever things may happen to me." 
Philippians4:12 I know how to be happy when I need things. I also know how to be happy when I have more than enough. I have learned this secret. I can be happy when I have enough food to eat, and also when I am hungry. I can be happy when I have plenty of things, and also when I have nothing." 
Philippians4:13 I can do all these things because Christ makes me strong. 
Philippians4:14 But certainly, you have been very kind to me. You have helped me while I have been in trouble." 
Philippians4:15 Also, you Christians in Philippi helped me at the time when I started to tell people God's good news. When I left Macedonia, you were the only group of Christians who helped me. We were able to help one another, as you know." 
Philippians4:16 Even when I was in Thessalonica, you helped me. More than once, you sent gifts to me because I needed things." 
Philippians4:17 It is not your gifts themselves that I want. But I want you to do good things so that God will bless you in return. 
Philippians4:18 Epaphroditus has brought the gifts that you sent to me. I have received those gifts, so that I no longer need anything. You have sent me more than enough. Your gifts are like a sacrifice with a nice smell that you have offered to God. God accepts that kind of sacrifice. It makes him very happy." 
Philippians4:19 My Lord God in heaven has plenty of good and valuable things. Because you belong to Christ Jesus, God will give to you everything that you need." 
Philippians4:20 Our Father God is very great! Praise him always and for ever! Amen. 
Philippians4:21 Say ‘hello’ on my behalf to all of God's people there who belong to Christ Jesus. The believers who are here with me say ‘hello’ to you. 
Philippians4:22 All God's people here say ‘hello’ to you. The Christians who live in the king's house say a special ‘hello’ to you. 
Philippians4:23 We pray that the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be kind to you, so that your spirits are strong." 
Colossians1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. God chose me to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. Our friend Timothy is here with me while I write." 
Colossians1:2 We are writing to you, God's own people who live in Colossae. You are like brothers and sisters to us because you continue to believe in Christ. I pray that God, our Father, will continue to help you. I pray that he will give you peace in your minds." 
Colossians1:3 We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you." 
Colossians1:4 We thank God because people have told us good things about you. You continue to trust Christ Jesus. You also love all God's people. 
Colossians1:5 You live like that because you have a strong hope in God. You know that he has prepared good things for you and he is keeping them safe in heaven. You learned about this when people first told you God's true message, his good news." 
Colossians1:6 You have heard this good news, like people all over the world have heard it. It has caused good results among you since the time when you heard it first. At that time, you understood the true message about how kind God really is. As a result, God is blessing you more and more, like he blesses his people everywhere." 
Colossians1:7 It was our good friend Epaphras who first told you this good news. Like us, he is Christ's servant. He serves Christ on our behalf." 
Colossians1:8 He has told us about the love that God's Spirit has given to you. 
Colossians1:9 Because of all that, we have not stopped praying for you, ever since the day that we heard about you. We ask God that his Spirit will make you truly wise. He will help you to know clearly what he wants you to do. You will understand his true message." 
Colossians1:10 Then you will be able to live in a way that the Lord wants you to live. Everything that you do will please him. We pray that all these good things will have good results. We pray that you will know God better and better. 
Colossians1:11 God rules from heaven with great power. We pray that he will make you strong with every kind of strength. Then, when troubles come, you can still be patient and strong." 
Colossians1:12 You will be able to thank God, our Father, and be happy. God has prepared good things for his people to receive in heaven. Because God has included you among his people, you will also share those good things in the kingdom of light." 
Colossians1:13 God has saved us from the dark kingdom where Satan rules. He has brought us into the kingdom of his Son, whom he loves." 
Colossians1:14 God's Son, Jesus, paid the price for our sins and he made us free. Yes, God has forgiven us." 
Colossians1:15 We cannot see God. But Jesus Christ shows us completely who God is. Even before God made anything, Jesus was already there as God's Son who rules everything." 
Colossians1:16 When God created everything, it was his Son who did it. His Son made everything that is on earth and in heaven. He created everything that we can see, as well as the things that we cannot see. He made rulers and leaders. He made everything that has power and authority. God gave his Son the authority to create everything, so that his Son would receive honour." 
Colossians1:17 God's Son was there before anything else was there. And now he causes everything to continue in its proper place. 
Colossians1:18 The church is like Christ's body and he is its head. He is where it all begins. As God's special Son, he was the first person who became alive again after death. As a result, Christ is first and most important in all things." 
Colossians1:19 God chose to put his nature in Christ completely. 
Colossians1:20 He decided that Christ would die on the cross as a sacrifice. In that way, God would bring all things back to himself. Then everything could live in peace with God. That includes everything on the earth and everything in heaven." 
Colossians1:21 As for you, you were far away from God at one time. You thought bad things and you did bad things. As a result, you were God's enemies." 
Colossians1:22 But now you have become God's friends. This happened because Christ's human body died on the cross. As a result, God has brought you to himself. As you stand in front of him, you are completely good and clean inside. He sees nothing in you that is bad." 
Colossians1:23 But you must continue to believe God's true message. Do not turn away from it. Continue to trust God, as you did when you first heard the good news. People have told this good news to everyone all over the world. And God has chosen me, Paul, as his servant to tell this good news." 
Colossians1:24 At this time, I am suffering on your behalf, but I am still happy. Christ himself suffered on behalf of his people, the church. Now, while I live in my human body, I also suffer. I continue to receive the pain that Christ received, so that it may be complete. In that way, I help the church, which is like Christ's own body." 
Colossians1:25 I have become God's servant, so that I can help the church. God chose me to do that. He chose me to explain his message to you completely." 
Colossians1:26 That message is a secret that God hid from everyone before now. He hid it from all the people who lived in past times. But now he has shown this secret to his people. 
Colossians1:27 God wanted them to understand how great this secret is. It shows that God will bless people who live in all countries of the world. This secret message is that Christ lives in you. And because of that, you know that you will live with God in heaven one day." 
Colossians1:28 That is why we tell everyone the message about Christ. God helps us to be very wise as we warn people and we teach them. We want every person who belongs to Christ to become complete, as God sees them." 
Colossians1:29 That is why I work very hard. Christ works powerfully in me to make me strong for this difficult work. 
Colossians2:1 I want you to know that I am doing a difficult work on your behalf. I am also working to help the people at Laodicea and other people who have never met me. 
Colossians2:2 I want all the believers to become strong in their spirits. I want them to help each other because they love one another. Then God will bless them very much, because they understand God's secret message very well. They will be completely sure of it. And they will know Christ himself, who is God's secret." 
Colossians2:3 Christ is the one who holds everything that makes people wise. He helps people to know the true message that God had hidden. 
Colossians2:4 I am telling you these things so that false teachers will not deceive you. They may teach ideas that seem good, but do not listen to them." 
Colossians2:5 My body is not there with you, but I think about you a lot. I hear that you are living and working well together. I also hear that you continue to trust Christ strongly. That makes me very happy." 
Colossians2:6 You have accepted Christ Jesus as your Lord. So remember that you belong to him as you live your lives. 
Colossians2:7 Get your strength from Christ himself, so that you become stronger and stronger. Continue to believe the true message that we taught you. And thank God very much for everything." 
Colossians2:8 Be careful that you do not believe any false teachers. The ideas that they teach may seem clever. But they really want to deceive you. They are ideas that have come from the human minds of our ancestors. Or ideas that come from spirits that belong to this world. They are not the true message about Christ. 
Colossians2:9 The whole nature of God himself lives in Christ, in his human body." 
Colossians2:10 And because you are united with Christ, you are now complete. He is the one who rules over everything that has power or authority." 
Colossians2:11 Also, because you are united with Christ, you truly belong to God's people. No person has circumcised you to show this. Instead, it is like Christ himself has circumcised you, to show that you belong to God. It is like he has cut off your old nature which made you do bad things." 
Colossians2:12 When they baptized you, it was like God buried you with Christ. And God also raised you to a new life with Christ. You believed that God has great power to do that. You believed that God raised Jesus to life after he died. Because you believed, God raised you to have a new life." 
Colossians2:13 At one time, you were dead in your spirits, because of the wrong things that you did. God had not cut off your old nature. You did not belong to his people. But now God has caused you to become alive with Christ. He has forgiven us for all the wrong things that we have done." 
Colossians2:14 We are guilty of many wrong things that are against God's laws. But Christ died on the cross on our behalf. He paid the debt of our sins. It is like he has destroyed the list of all the debts that we should pay to God. 
Colossians2:15 On the cross, Christ took away the power of the bad spirits that have authority to rule people. He showed clearly that he himself has won against them. Now everyone can see that those bad spirits have no power." 
Colossians2:16 Some people may tell you that it is wrong for you to eat or to drink certain things. Or they make rules about special festival days, about new moons, or about the Jewish days for rest. Do not agree with people like that." 
Colossians2:17 Rules like that are only like shadows of real things that would happen later. But now we have what is real, Christ himself!" 
Colossians2:18 Some people may tell you that you must always serve other people like a slave. They may tell you that you must worship angels. Do not let those people speak bad things against you. They like to talk a lot about the special things that God has shown them. They think that they are very clever. But their ideas only come from human minds. 
Colossians2:19 False teachers like that do not receive their message from Christ. As God's people, we are like a body and Christ is like our head. He is the one who causes the whole body to be strong. He helps us to work well together, like the different parts of a body. Then we can all grow properly, because it is God who is helping us to grow." 
Colossians2:20 Remember that your old nature has died with Christ. So the powerful spirits that rule this world no longer have any authority over you. You do not need to serve them, because you do not belong to this world now. You do not need to obey their rules." 
Colossians2:21 They teach, ‘Do not touch things like that!’ Or, ‘Do not eat that kind of food!’ Or, ‘Keep away from that thing!’" 
Colossians2:22 Rules like that are only about things that spoil when you use them. They are rules that come from human ideas. 
Colossians2:23 They teach you ideas about what you must do to worship God. They teach you to serve other people like a slave. They say that you must hurt yourself. You must show that you control your body. Rules like that may seem to be wise, but really they are not worth anything. They cannot stop our weak human nature from doing the bad things that we want to do." 
Colossians3:1 God has raised you with Christ to a new life. So you should want more and more the things that belong to heaven. That is where Christ is now. He sits there at God's right side. 
Colossians3:2 So think about the good things that are there in heaven above. Do not think only about things that are on the earth. 
Colossians3:3 Remember that your old nature has died. God is keeping your new life safe with Christ. 
Colossians3:4 You have that new life because you belong to Christ. One day, Christ will show himself clearly to everyone. Then everyone will see that you are with him. They will see that you also have glory, as he does." 
Colossians3:5 Your old nature likes to do bad things that belong to this earth. But your old nature is dead, so do not do these bad things any more. Do not have sex with someone that you are not married to. Do not think bad, disgusting thoughts. Do not want to have sex in a wrong way. Do not want to do any kinds of bad things. Do not want to have many things for yourselves. That shows that you worship those things as your idol." 
Colossians3:6 God will certainly punish people who do those kinds of bad things. 
Colossians3:7 At one time, you lived like that. You did those kinds of bad things." 
Colossians3:8 But now you must refuse to do all kinds of things like that. Do not become angry with people or shout at them. Do not do anything or say anything that will hurt other people. Do not speak any bad or disgusting words. 
Colossians3:9 Do not deceive each other with lies. Remember that you have taken off your old nature, like an old coat. As a result, you can stop doing all the bad things that you liked to do before." 
Colossians3:10 Now you have received a new nature. It is God who made it for you so that you can become more and more like him. You will learn to know him better and better. 
Colossians3:11 People have this new nature only because they belong to Christ. That is the important thing. Jews are not different from Gentiles. It does not matter whether someone has circumcised you or not. It does not matter which country you come from or how clever you are. It does not matter whether you are a slave or a free person. Christ is all that matters. He lives in every believer. 
Colossians3:12 God has chosen you to be his own special people. You belong to him and he loves you very much. So this is how you should live: Be kind to other people and help them. Do not think that you are better than other people. Instead, respect them and be patient with them." 
Colossians3:13 Do not become angry with each other. If you think that someone has done something wrong against you, forgive them. Remember that the Lord has forgiven you. So you should also forgive other people." 
Colossians3:14 And you must also love each other. That is the most important thing that you should do. Love holds all these good things completely together. 
Colossians3:15 Christ has given you peace in your minds. So let that peace rule your thoughts. God has chosen you to be like one body, as his people. So he wants you to live together in peace. Thank God for everything that he gives to you." 
Colossians3:16 Let Christ's message always be in your thoughts, with all the good things that it brings. Use that message to teach and to warn each other. Be very wise as you do that. And also sing all kinds of spiritual songs to praise God. Sing psalms and Christian songs. As you sing, thank God from inside yourselves." 
Colossians3:17 Show that you belong to the Lord Jesus with everything that you do and with everything that you say. Always thank God the Father in the way that you serve Jesus. 
Colossians3:18 Wives, obey your husbands. That is the right thing to do, because you belong to the Lord." 
Colossians3:19 Husbands, love your wives. Do not bring trouble to them." 
Colossians3:20 Children, always obey your parents. That pleases the Lord." 
Colossians3:21 Fathers, do not cause your children to be upset. If you do, they might think that they never do anything that is good." 
Colossians3:22 Slaves, always obey your human masters. Do not do good work only when they can see you. Some people only work to make other people like them. Instead, serve your masters well because you want to. That will show that you respect the Lord as your master." 
Colossians3:23 Whatever things you are doing, do them well. Remember that you are serving the Lord. You are not only serving people." 
Colossians3:24 You know that you will receive the good things that the Lord has promised to his people. He will give you what is right for you. The Lord Jesus Christ is the master that you serve. 
Colossians3:25 Remember that God will punish anyone who does wrong things. He always judges people correctly, whoever they are." 
Colossians4:1 Masters, be fair to your servants. Give them what is right. Remember that you also serve a master, and he is in heaven." 
Colossians4:2 Continue to pray seriously. Stay awake, like people who watch carefully. And remember to thank God." 
Colossians4:3 Also pray for us. Ask God to make it possible for us to tell people his message. We want people to understand the message about Christ that was a secret before. I am now in a prison because I taught people those things. 
Colossians4:4 Pray that I will be able to tell people this message clearly. That is what I should do. 
Colossians4:5 When you are with people who do not believe in Christ, be careful how you live. Use every chance to do good things." 
Colossians4:6 When you speak to people, always speak kind words. Say things that will help them. Then, when someone asks you a question, you will know how to reply." 
Colossians4:7 Our Christian friend, Tychicus, will tell you all the news about me. He works hard to serve the Lord. Like me, he is the Lord's servant." 
Colossians4:8 I want him to tell you what is happening to us, so that you will feel stronger. That is the reason why I am sending him to you." 
Colossians4:9 Onesimus will travel with him. As you know, he is one of your own people. He is a good Christian friend who serves Christ well. Onesimus and Tychicus will tell you everything that is happening here." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus is also here with me in the prison. He says ‘hello’ to you. Barnabas's cousin, Mark also says ‘hello’ to you. I have already told you about him. So, if he comes to you, be kind to him." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus is also here with me in the prison. He says ‘hello’ to you. Barnabas's cousin, Mark also says ‘hello’ to you. I have already told you about him. So, if he comes to you, be kind to him." 
Colossians4:11 Jesus, who is also called Justus, says ‘hello’ to you, too. These three men are the only Jewish believers who are serving God with me. We work together to bring people into the kingdom of God. These men have helped me to be strong." 
Colossians4:12 Epaphras says ‘hello’ to you. He is also one of your people, and he is Jesus Christ's servant. He always prays very strongly for you. He prays that you will continue to grow as believers. He prays that you will completely understand everything that God wants you to do." 
Colossians4:13 I can tell you this about Epaphras: he has worked very hard for you, and also for the people at Laodicea and at Hierapolis." 
Colossians4:14 Our good friend Luke, the doctor, says ‘hello’ to you. Demas also says ‘hello’." 
Colossians4:14 Our good friend Luke, the doctor, says ‘hello’ to you. Demas also says ‘hello’." 
Colossians4:15 Say ‘hello’ for me to all the believers at Laodicea. Also say ‘hello’ to Nympha and to the group of believers that meet in her house. 
Colossians4:16 After someone has read this letter to all of you, send it to the believers at Laodicea. Tell them to read it aloud to the church there. You must also read my letter that the believers at Laodicea will send to you." 
Colossians4:17 Say to Archippus, ‘As you serve the Lord, be careful to finish the work that he gave you to do.’" 
Colossians4:18 I, Paul, am writing these words at the end of this letter with my own hand. Remember to pray for me while I am in prison. I pray that God will continue to be very kind to you." 
1Thessalonians1:1 This letter is from Paul, Silas and Timothy. We are writing to the people of the church in Thessalonica. You belong to God the Father and to the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray that God will continue to help you. We pray that he will give you peace in your minds." 
1Thessalonians1:2 We always thank God for all of you. Every time that we pray, we pray for you." 
1Thessalonians1:3 As we pray to our Father God, we remember how you live. You do good things because you believe in Christ. You work hard to help other people because you love them and you love God. You are also strong and patient because you hope in our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians1:4 Our Christian friends, God loves you. We know that he has chosen you to belong to him." 
1Thessalonians1:5 When we told you God's good news, it was not only words that we spoke to you. God helped us with his power and with the Holy Spirit. As a result, you were sure that our message was true. You also know that we lived among you in a good way. We had come to help you." 
1Thessalonians1:6 In your lives also, you copied our example and the example of the Lord Jesus. When you believed our message, people caused you to suffer very much. But God's Holy Spirit helped you to be happy." 
1Thessalonians1:7 As a result, you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia." 
1Thessalonians1:8 Because of you, people in many places have clearly heard the message about the Lord. It is not only the people in Macedonia and in Achaia who have heard it. People everywhere now know that you trust God. So, as we travel to different places, we do not need to tell people anything." 
1Thessalonians1:9 Those people themselves speak about how you accepted us. They tell us how you stopped worshipping false gods. They know that you now serve the true God who always lives. 
1Thessalonians1:10 They also tell us that you are waiting patiently for God's Son to return from heaven. God raised him up after his death on the cross. He is Jesus, the one who saves us. He keeps us safe from God's anger that will surely come." 
1Thessalonians2:1 Our Christian friends, you yourselves know that our visit to you had good results." 
1Thessalonians2:2 You know what happened to us before we came to you. The people at Philippi had done bad things to us. They had caused us to suffer. When we came to you, our God helped us to be brave. We were not afraid to tell you his good news. Many people tried to stop us, but we told you God's message." 
1Thessalonians2:3 When we tell people to obey God's message, we are not saying anything that is not true. We do not have a wrong purpose. We are not trying to deceive anyone." 
1Thessalonians2:4 Instead, we say what God wants us to say. He has chosen us to tell his good news to people. So we are not trying to please people. God is the one that we want to please. He knows all our thoughts." 
1Thessalonians2:5 When we came to you, we did not say nice things only to please you. You know that we never did that. We did not try to make you give things to us. We never had a secret purpose like that. God knows that this is true." 
1Thessalonians2:6 We did not want you, or anyone else, to praise us." 
1Thessalonians2:7 We could have used our authority over you, because we are Christ's apostles. But instead, we chose to be kind to you and to help you. We took care of you, like a mother takes care of her little children." 
1Thessalonians2:8 We loved you very much, so we wanted to tell you God's good news. We wanted to share our lives with you too." 
1Thessalonians2:9 Our Christian friends, remember how we worked so hard when we were with you. We worked during the day and even during the night. We did not want to cause any problems for you. So we taught you God's good news and we did not ask you to give us anything in return." 
1Thessalonians2:10 You know that we lived in a good way when we were with you. God also knows that. We were completely honest with you believers. Nobody could say that we did anything wrong. 
1Thessalonians2:11 You know that we helped you, like a father helps his own children." 
1Thessalonians2:12 We taught you clearly what is true. We helped you to be strong as believers. God has chosen you to be his own people. You belong to his great kingdom, where he rules. So we told you to live in a way that pleases him." 
1Thessalonians2:13 There is another reason why we always continue to thank God for you. When we told God's message to you, you knew that it was not human ideas. You accepted it as God's own message, and that is what it certainly is. And God continues to use his message to work among you as believers." 
1Thessalonians2:14 Our Christian friends, you have suffered in the same way that the people in the churches of Judea suffered. People in your own country have caused you to suffer. The people in Judea who believed in Christ Jesus received trouble from their own Jewish people." 
1Thessalonians2:14 Our Christian friends, you have suffered in the same way that the people in the churches of Judea suffered. People in your own country have caused you to suffer. The people in Judea who believed in Christ Jesus received trouble from their own Jewish people." 
1Thessalonians2:15 It was people like that who killed the Lord Jesus. They killed God's prophets, too. They also did cruel things to us, so that we had to leave their towns. They make God become angry. They are enemies of all people," 
1Thessalonians2:16 because they try to stop us speaking to Gentiles. They do not want God to save anyone from another nation. In this way, they continue to do more and more bad things. When their sins become too many, God has to stop them. Now he has become so angry that he will finally punish them." 
1Thessalonians2:17 Our friends, we have had to go away from you for a short time. But we continue to think about you. We have wanted more and more to see you again." 
1Thessalonians2:18 Yes, we really wanted to visit you. Certainly, I, Paul, tried many times to come to you, but Satan stopped us." 
1Thessalonians2:19 You are the people who make us very happy! We know that you will continue to trust God. So, when our Lord Jesus returns, we will be proud of you. You will be like a crown that he gives us when we stand in front of him." 
1Thessalonians2:20 You show the great results of our work. Yes, it is because of you that we are very happy." 
1Thessalonians3:1 After a long time, we could not be patient any longer. So we sent our friend Timothy to come to you. We ourselves decided to stay here in Athens. Timothy serves God with us here. He tells people the good news about Christ. We sent him to you so that he could help you to trust Christ more and more." 
1Thessalonians3:2  
1Thessalonians3:3 You are suffering very much. We did not want anyone among you to turn away from Christ because of that. You already know that we who are believers must receive these kinds of troubles. 
1Thessalonians3:4 Even when we were there with you, we told you that people would cause us to suffer. Now it has really happened, so you know that it is true." 
1Thessalonians3:5 That is why I had to send Timothy to come to you. I could not wait to hear news about you any longer. I wanted to know whether you still trusted Christ. I was afraid that Satan had deceived you. If he had made you turn away from Christ, our work among you would have had no results." 
1Thessalonians3:6 But now Timothy has come back to us. And he has told us good news about you. He has told us that you continue to trust Christ and you love one another. He says that you always think about us in a good way. You want very much to meet us again, as we also want to meet you." 
1Thessalonians3:7 So we have become happy again because of you, our Christian friends. We continue to suffer and we have much trouble. But we are happy because you continue to trust Christ." 
1Thessalonians3:8 Yes, we are like people who have become alive again. We know that you are strong as you trust the Lord." 
1Thessalonians3:9 We thank God very much for you! You make us very happy when we talk to God about you. 
1Thessalonians3:10 We pray very much for you, during the day and during the night. We ask God to give us the chance to visit you again. We want to help you to understand the things that you still need to know. Then you will be able to trust Christ even more." 
1Thessalonians3:11 We pray that our Father God himself and our Lord Jesus will prepare the way for us. Then we will come to visit you. 
1Thessalonians3:12 We pray that the Lord will cause you to love people more and more. We love you very much. We pray that you will love each other and all people, as we love you." 
1Thessalonians3:13 Then God will cause you to become strong inside yourselves. You will live in a completely good way. One day our Lord Jesus will come back with all the people who belong to him. Then you will stand in front of God, our Father. He will say that you are not guilty of anything that is wrong." 
1Thessalonians4:1 Christian friends, there are a few more things that we need to say. We have already taught you how to live in a way that pleases God. And we know that you are living in that way. Now we ask you to continue to live like that even more. On behalf of the Lord Jesus, we seriously ask you to do this." 
1Thessalonians4:2 You surely remember what we taught you with the authority of the Lord Jesus. 
1Thessalonians4:3 This is how God wants you to live: as his own people, he wants you to be completely good. So you must not have sex in a way that is wrong." 
1Thessalonians4:4 Each of you men must learn to control his own body properly. Then you will do only what is pure and right. 
1Thessalonians4:5 People who do not know God want to have sex in a wrong way. They cannot control themselves. You must not be like those people. 
1Thessalonians4:6 No man among you should ever have sex with the wife of a Christian friend. That would be the same as if you robbed him. It would be a bad thing to do against him. Remember that the Lord will punish everyone who does things like that. We have already told you this. We warned you very seriously about it. 
1Thessalonians4:7 God has chosen us to belong to him. He does not want us to do disgusting things. As his people, he wants us to be holy." 
1Thessalonians4:8 You should accept what I am saying. If not, it is not just human teaching that you refuse to obey. You are refusing to obey God himself. And God is the one who has given his Holy Spirit to you." 
1Thessalonians4:9 But I do not need to write to you about how you should love other believers. God himself has taught you how to love each other. 
1Thessalonians4:10 Certainly, you love all the believers in all the region of Macedonia. And now we ask you, as our Christian friends, ‘Please love each other more and more.’" 
1Thessalonians4:11 Try very much to live at peace with other people. Work hard at your own job. We have already told you that you must do these things. 
1Thessalonians4:12 If you live in this way, other people who are not believers will respect you. Also, you will not have to ask anyone else to give you the things that you need." 
1Thessalonians4:13 Our Christian friends, we want you to understand properly about your friends who have died. People who do not hope for any life after death are sad when their friends die. But you should not be upset like those people." 
1Thessalonians4:14 We believe that Jesus died and he rose again after death. So we also believe that people who have died as Christians will live again. When God brings Jesus back, he will also bring back with him the Christians who have died." 
1Thessalonians4:15 We are telling you the message that the Lord has given to us. This is what will happen when the Lord returns. Those of us who are still alive will not go to meet the Lord first. We will not go before those people who have already died. 
1Thessalonians4:16 On that day, the Lord himself will come down from heaven. He will shout with authority. People will hear the voice of the leader of God's angels. They will hear the sound of God's trumpet. Then those people who have died as Christians will become alive again. They will be the first people to rise up." 
1Thessalonians4:17 After that, those of us who are still alive will join together with them. God will suddenly take us up into the clouds. In that way, we will all meet the Lord in the sky. So we will all be with the Lord for ever." 
1Thessalonians4:18 Because this message is true, tell it to each other. Help one another to be strong, not sad." 
1Thessalonians5:1 Friends, we do not need to write anything to you about the dates and times when these things will happen." 
1Thessalonians5:2 You know very well about how the great day of the Lord will happen. That day will surprise people very much, like when a robber comes in the night." 
1Thessalonians5:3 At that time, people will be saying, ‘We are safe and there is no trouble for us.’ But then, when they are not ready for it, great punishment will suddenly happen to them. It will be impossible for them to run away. Pain will suddenly come to them, like a woman who is giving birth to a baby." 
1Thessalonians5:4 But you, our Christian friends, know about these things. You are not like people who live in the dark. So when the great day of the Lord happens, it should not suddenly surprise you, like a robber might surprise you." 
1Thessalonians5:5 All of you are people who belong to the light and to the day. We who are believers do not belong to the night or to the dark. 
1Thessalonians5:6 So we must watch carefully. We should be like people who stay awake. We should not be like other people who are sleeping. 
1Thessalonians5:7 It is at night that people sleep. It is at night that people become drunk. 
1Thessalonians5:8 But we belong to the day, not to the night. So we should think clearly. We must prepare ourselves like a soldier who puts on his armour. We must continue to trust God and to love him. That will be like a metal shirt that keeps our body safe. We must also continue to hope that God will save us. That will be like a strong helmet that keeps our head safe." 
1Thessalonians5:9 God did not choose us as his people so that he could be angry with us. He chose us so that he could save us because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done. 
1Thessalonians5:10 Jesus died on our behalf so that we can live together with him. It does not matter whether we are alive or dead when he returns. We will all go to live with him. 
1Thessalonians5:11 Because of that, you should help each other to become stronger as believers. I know that you are already doing that." 
1Thessalonians5:12 Our friends, we ask you to respect your leaders who work hard among you. On the Lord's behalf, they lead you and they teach you what is right." 
1Thessalonians5:13 Show them how valuable they are to you. And love them very much because of the work that they do. Live at peace among yourselves. 
1Thessalonians5:14 Friends, you must warn lazy people. Tell them that they should work. If people are afraid, help them to be brave. If people are weak, take care of them. Be patient with everyone." 
1Thessalonians5:15 If someone does something bad against you, do not do anything bad against them in return. Never do that. Instead, always try to do good things that will help each other and help everyone else." 
1Thessalonians5:16 Always be happy. 
1Thessalonians5:17 Pray at all times. 
1Thessalonians5:18 Whatever may happen to you, continue to thank God. God wants you to do that, because you belong to Christ Jesus." 
1Thessalonians5:19 Do not stop the work of God's Spirit. 
1Thessalonians5:20 When people speak messages on God's behalf, do not refuse to listen." 
1Thessalonians5:21 Instead, think carefully about everything, to see if it is true. Accept anything that is good." 
1Thessalonians5:22 But keep away from any kind of evil thing. 
1Thessalonians5:23 I pray that God will help you to be completely good, as his people should be. He is the one who gives us peace in our minds. May he take care of you in every way, in your spirit, in your soul and in your body. Then you will not be guilty of anything, when our Lord Jesus Christ returns." 
1Thessalonians5:24 God has chosen you to be his people. We can trust him to do what he has promised to do. So he will do all this for you. 
1Thessalonians5:25 Our Christian friends, please pray for us." 
1Thessalonians5:26 Say ‘hello’ to all the believers on our behalf, and kiss them as Christian brothers and sisters." 
1Thessalonians5:27 I tell you very seriously on the Lord's behalf, read this letter to all the believers." 
1Thessalonians5:28 I pray that our Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be very kind to you. 
2Thessalonians1:1 This letter is from Paul, Silas and Timothy. We are writing to the people of the church in Thessalonica. You belong to God our Father, and to the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians1:2 We pray that God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. We pray that they will give you peace in your minds. 
2Thessalonians1:3 Our Christian friends, we always ought to thank God because of you. It is right that we do this, because you are learning to trust Christ more and more. All of you are also loving each other more and more." 
2Thessalonians1:4 As a result, we are proud to tell believers in other churches about you. We tell them how you continue to trust God in your many troubles. You are patient and brave, even when people cause you to suffer." 
2Thessalonians1:5 This shows us that God judges people in a way that is right. Now you are suffering because you belong to God's kingdom. Because of that, God accepts you as the people that he rules." 
2Thessalonians1:6 God will punish those people who are causing trouble for you. He will cause trouble for them. That is right and fair. 
2Thessalonians1:7 God will also do what is right and fair for you. You have troubles now. But one day God will cause you to have rest, together with us. This will happen when the Lord Jesus comes down from heaven. He will come with his powerful angels," 
2Thessalonians1:8 and with a very hot fire. He will punish those people who do not know God. Yes, he will punish those people who do not obey the good news about our Lord Jesus." 
2Thessalonians1:9 Their punishment will continue for ever, as God destroys them. He will keep them away from the Lord. They will never see the Lord, or his great power." 
2Thessalonians1:10 This will happen when Jesus comes on that special day. His own people will praise him for the great things that he has done for them. All of us who are believers will be surprised when we see his great power. This includes you, because you believed our message about the Lord Jesus." 
2Thessalonians1:11 So we always pray for you. Our God has chosen you to be his own people. We pray that he will help you, so that you continue to please him. We also pray that God will work powerfully in you. Then you will be able to do every good thing that you want to do. You will do the things that you want to do because you trust God." 
2Thessalonians1:12 As a result, people will praise our Lord Jesus because of how you live. You also will receive praise, because you belong to Jesus. All this is possible because our God and the Lord Jesus Christ are very kind." 
2Thessalonians2:1 Our Christian friends, we must explain something now about the time when our Lord Jesus Christ will return. That is the time when he will bring us all together to be with him." 
2Thessalonians2:2 Please do not become easily confused about this. Do not let yourselves become afraid because of false messages about the Lord's return. Some people are telling you that the great day of the Lord has already happened. Some of these people say that God's Spirit has shown them a message like that. Other people might say that the message came from us. Or they might say that we wrote it in a letter. 
2Thessalonians2:3 Do not let anyone deceive you like that in any way. That day will not happen until certain other things have happened. Before that day, there will be a time when many people will turn against God. Also, the man who is completely against God will appear. God will surely destroy him in the end." 
2Thessalonians2:4 This man will be God's great enemy. He will say that he is greater than everything that people call their gods. He will say that he is greater than everything that people worship. As a result, he will even go into the temple. He will sit down there like a king. He will tell everyone that he himself is God." 
2Thessalonians2:5 I told you these things when I was with you. I am sure that you remember that. 
2Thessalonians2:6 Something makes it impossible for this man to come now. And you know what it is. But this man will appear at the proper time. 
2Thessalonians2:7 His power is already working secretly to turn people against God. But there is someone who makes it impossible for him to work freely. That person will continue to make it impossible, until God takes that person away." 
2Thessalonians2:8 Then the man who is against God will appear. But the Lord Jesus will come, and he will kill that man. Jesus will blow him away with breath from his mouth. When Jesus appears with great power, that enemy of God will be there no longer!" 
2Thessalonians2:9 When the enemy of God appears, he will be doing Satan's work. Satan will give him the power to do great things and miracles that are false." 
2Thessalonians2:10 He will do all kinds of bad things that deceive people. The people that he deceives are people that God will destroy. Those people believe false things because they have refused to accept God's true message. If they had loved that true message, God would have saved them." 
2Thessalonians2:11 For this reason, God causes their minds to accept something that is wrong. They believe a false message." 
2Thessalonians2:12 As a result, God will punish all of them. They have refused to believe what is true. Instead, they have enjoyed doing very bad things." 
2Thessalonians2:13 We always thank God for you, our Christian friends that the Lord loves. We ought to thank God, because he has chosen to save you. God chose you to belong to him, as some of the first people that he would save. You believed God's true message. And God's Spirit makes you separate from things that are bad." 
2Thessalonians2:14 We told you God's good news. That is how God called you to come to him. He saved you so that you would join with our Lord Jesus Christ in heaven. 
2Thessalonians2:15 Because of that, our Christian friends, you must continue to trust Christ. Continue to believe the true things that we taught you. Those are the things that we told you when we were with you. We also wrote about them in our letter to you." 
2Thessalonians2:16 We ask our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, our Father, to help you. God has shown that he loves us very much. He has helped us to be brave and strong for all time. We continue to hope for the good things that will come. Yes, God has been very kind to us!" 
2Thessalonians2:17 We pray that he will continue to help you and make you strong. Then you will always be able to do good things and to say good things. 
2Thessalonians3:1 Now, friends, we ask you to pray for us. Pray that more and more people will soon hear the Lord's message. Pray that people will receive the message well and accept it as true. That is how you received it." 
2Thessalonians3:2 Pray also that God will not let bad people cause trouble for us. Not everyone believes the message about our Lord. 
2Thessalonians3:3 But the Lord always does what he has promised. So he will help you to be strong inside yourselves. He will keep you safe when Satan attacks you. 
2Thessalonians3:4 Because you belong to the Lord, he makes us sure about you. We know that you are doing the things that we tell you to do. And we know that you will continue to do those things." 
2Thessalonians3:5 We pray that the Lord will lead you in your thoughts. Then you will understand God's love better and better. And you will be patient and strong, as Christ is." 
2Thessalonians3:6 Our friends, you must stay away from every believer who is living in a lazy way. We tell you this with the authority that the Lord Jesus Christ gives to us. Lazy people like that are not living in the way that we taught you." 
2Thessalonians3:7 You yourselves know that you ought to copy our example. You know that we were not lazy when we lived among you. 
2Thessalonians3:8 We always paid for the food that anyone gave to us. We worked hard all the time, during the day and at night. We did that so that we would not make trouble for any of you." 
2Thessalonians3:9 We could have told you to give us what we needed. We have authority to do that. But we wanted to show you how to live properly. Then you could copy our example. 
2Thessalonians3:10 Even when we were there with you, we told you this rule: ‘If anyone refuses to work, you should not give food to him.’" 
2Thessalonians3:11 We say this because someone has told us news about you. They have told us that some people among you are living in a lazy way. Those people do not work at their own jobs. Instead, they cause trouble to other people who are working." 
2Thessalonians3:12 We have something to say to people who are lazy like that. We warn them with the authority that the Lord Jesus Christ gives to us. They must stop causing trouble. They must work properly, so that they get their own food to eat." 
2Thessalonians3:13 But you must never stop doing what is right, our Christian friends, even when it causes trouble for you." 
2Thessalonians3:14 Maybe someone among you will not obey the message that we have written in this letter. Make sure that everyone knows about someone like that. Do not be friends with him, so that he may become ashamed." 
2Thessalonians3:15 But remember that he is a believer, as you are. So warn him carefully." 
2Thessalonians3:16 The Lord helps us to have peace in our minds. I pray that the Lord himself will give that peace to you at all times, whatever happens. I pray that the Lord will be with all of you." 
2Thessalonians3:17 I, Paul, am writing these words at the end of my letter with my own hand. I say ‘hello’ to you. That is how I write in every letter that comes from me." 
2Thessalonians3:18 I pray that our Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be very kind to all of you. 
1Timothy1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. I am an apostle of Christ Jesus. God, our Saviour, is the one who commanded that I should be an apostle. So did Christ Jesus, the one who gives us hope." 
1Timothy1:2 I am writing to you, Timothy. I told you the message about Jesus and you believed in him. So you are like my own child. I pray that God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord will continue to help you and be kind to you. I pray that they will give you peace in your mind." 
1Timothy1:3 When I was going to Macedonia, I asked you to stay in Ephesus. Please continue to stay there. Certain people in Ephesus are teaching wrong things about God. You must tell them to stop doing that." 
1Timothy1:4 Tell people not to listen to false stories. They should not always be studying long lists of their families' names from years ago. Those things do not help people. They only cause them to argue. Instead, they need to understand God's purpose for us. To do that, people must trust him." 
1Timothy1:5 We need to teach people to love one another with pure thoughts. They need to be sure in their minds that they are living in a good way. They need to trust God completely. 
1Timothy1:6 But certain people have failed to live in that way. They would rather talk about things that do not help anyone. 
1Timothy1:7 They want to be teachers of God's Law. They speak very strongly, but they do not really understand what they are talking about." 
1Timothy1:8 We know that God's laws are good, if people use them properly." 
1Timothy1:9 We also know that God did not make those laws for people who already live in a good way. He made them for people like this, to show them what is right: people who refuse to obey any laws; people who do not want anyone to rule them; people who turn away from God; people who do bad things; people who do not respect God's holy things; people who kill their father or their mother; people who murder;" 
1Timothy1:10 people who have sex in a wrong way; men who have sex with other men; people who catch other people to sell them; people who tell lies; people who do not speak the truth in court; people who do any wrong things that are against God's true message. 
1Timothy1:11 That true message is the good news that comes from our great God. We praise him for it. He has chosen me to tell this good news to people. 
1Timothy1:12 I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has made me strong to serve him. He decided to trust me and he chose me to work on his behalf." 
1Timothy1:13 Before he chose me, I said bad things about him. I caused great trouble for his people. I was a cruel man, but God was very kind to me. He forgave me because I did not know what I was doing. That was because I did not believe in Jesus." 
1Timothy1:14 Our Lord continued to be very good and kind to me. He caused me to believe in Christ Jesus and to love him. 
1Timothy1:15 Here is a true message that everyone should believe: ‘Christ Jesus came into the world to save people who do wrong things.’ I am the worst person like that! 
1Timothy1:16 But God was kind to me. Christ Jesus showed that he was completely patient with me, the worst person. That was an example to those people who would later believe in him. They would believe and receive life for ever with God." 
1Timothy1:17 Praise God, the King who rules for ever! He can never die. He lives where we cannot see him. He is the only God. So praise him and say how great he is! That is true always and for ever! Amen." 
1Timothy1:18 Timothy, you are like my own child. So now I am telling you to serve God well. Remember the words from God that people spoke about you, when you became a servant of God. Those words will help you to be strong, like a soldier who fights well." 
1Timothy1:19 You must continue to trust God. Always do what you know to be right. Some people have refused to do what is right, even when they know what they should do. As a result, they no longer believe God's true message." 
1Timothy1:20 Hymenaeus and Alexander are people like that. I have given them to Satan so that he may punish them. Then they will learn not to say bad things against God any more. 
1Timothy2:1 So then, this is what I want to ask you first. Please pray for all people. Ask God to supply what they need. Ask God to help them. Thank God for what he does for everyone." 
1Timothy2:2 Pray in that way for kings and for all rulers and people who have authority. Pray for God to help them, so that we may live our lives without trouble or danger. Then we can live in a good way that respects God and other people." 
1Timothy2:3 It is good that we should pray like that. It makes God, our Saviour, happy." 
1Timothy2:4 He wants to save all people. He wants everyone to know his message about what is true. 
1Timothy2:5 There is only one God. There is also only one person who brings God and people together. That person is Christ Jesus, who became a man himself." 
1Timothy2:6 He died as a sacrifice on behalf of all people, to pay the debt of their sins. He died at the proper time for God to show his purpose clearly." 
1Timothy2:7 God chose me as his apostle, to tell this same message to people. I am telling you what is true. I am not telling lies! Yes, he sent me to teach his true message to the Gentiles, so that they would believe in him." 
1Timothy2:8 So then, in every place where you meet together, I want the men to pray. The men who lift up their hands and pray must be those who live good lives. They must not be people who are angry or who quarrel with others." 
1Timothy2:9 I also want the women to dress themselves properly in a way that is right. They should not bring shame on themselves. What makes a woman beautiful? It is not the special way that she prepares her hair. It is not the gold things or jewels that she wears. It is not her expensive clothes. 
1Timothy2:10 Christian women should not dress themselves like that. Instead, their lives should show that they do good things. They say that they want to please God, so that is the proper way for them to live." 
1Timothy2:11 When you meet together, a woman should learn quietly. She must respect the leaders who teach in the church." 
1Timothy2:12 I do not let a woman teach men. I do not let a woman have authority over men. Instead, she should listen quietly." 
1Timothy2:13 I say this because God made Adam first. Then he made Eve. 
1Timothy2:14 It was Eve, not Adam, who believed the lies that Satan told her. Because she believed Satan completely, she did what God had said was wrong." 
1Timothy2:15 But even as women give birth to children, God will save them. They must continue to trust God and to love other people. They must live in a way that shows they belong to God. They must think carefully about how they live. Then God will save them." 
1Timothy3:1 These words are true: ‘If you want to become a leader of God's people, it is an important work that you want to do.’" 
1Timothy3:2 For that reason, a leader of the church must live a life that everyone knows is good. He must be the husband of one wife. He must think seriously about how he lives and he must control himself well. He must be someone that people respect. He must be happy to have visitors in his home. He must be a good teacher." 
1Timothy3:3 He should not drink too much wine. He must not get angry quickly or quarrel with people. Instead he should be kind to people. He must not want lots of money. 
1Timothy3:4 He must take care of his own family. His children must obey him and respect him. 
1Timothy3:5 A man must know how to take care of his own family. If he cannot do that, he will not be able to take care of God's people in the church." 
1Timothy3:6 A leader of the church must not be someone who has believed in Christ for only a short time. Someone like that might boast that he is great and important. Then he would receive punishment, as the devil did." 
1Timothy3:7 Also, people outside the church should agree that the leader is a good person. Then nobody can say anything bad against him. He will not come under the devil's power." 
1Timothy3:8 In the same way, deacons must live good lives, so that people respect them. They must not be hypocrites. They must not drink too much wine. They must not want to get a lot of money for themselves." 
1Timothy3:9 They must completely believe the true message that God has shown us about Christ. They must be sure in their minds about it. 
1Timothy3:10 Before anyone becomes a deacon, you must first test their character. If they are good enough, then let them serve God as deacons." 
1Timothy3:11 Deacons' wives must live good lives, so that people respect them. They must not say bad things against people. They must think carefully about how they live. People should know that they are honest in everything they do." 
1Timothy3:12 A deacon must be the husband of one wife. He must take care of his children and everyone who lives in his house. 
1Timothy3:13 If a deacon serves God's people well, then people will respect him as a good person. He will become strong to tell people about his faith in Christ Jesus." 
1Timothy3:14 I hope to come to visit you soon. But anyway, I want to write these things to you now." 
1Timothy3:15 Then, even if I cannot come to you soon, you will know how people in God's family should live. That family is the church of God, who lives for ever. God's family, the church, teaches God's true message and keeps it safe." 
1Timothy3:16 Yes, the message that God has shown us about Jesus Christ is very great. We all agree to this: God showed him to us as a man. God's Spirit showed that he always did what was right. Angels saw him. People taught his message in many nations. People in the world believed in him. God took him up to heaven." 
1Timothy4:1 God's Spirit tells us clearly that, in later times, some people will stop believing the message about Jesus Christ. Instead, they will listen to bad spirits who want people to believe wrong things. They will listen to the message that comes from demons." 
1Timothy4:2 The people who teach those false things are hypocrites. They no longer understand that what they teach is wrong. 
1Timothy4:3 They say that it is wrong for anyone to marry. They tell people not to eat certain kinds of food. But God made those foods for people to eat! We should understand God's true message and trust him. Then we will receive the food that he has given us and we will thank him for it. 
1Timothy4:4 Everything that God has made is good. So we should not refuse anything that he has made. Instead, we should receive it and thank God for it." 
1Timothy4:5 God has said that it is good. We should pray that he will bless it. Because of that, it becomes good and clean for us to eat." 
1Timothy4:6 You must explain these things to the believers and teach them God's true message. If you do that, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus. Continue to study the message about Jesus that you have already learned. That will help you to be strong." 
1Timothy4:7 But you must refuse to listen to false stories. Stories like that are not from God and only silly people believe them. Instead, learn to live well in a way that makes God happy." 
1Timothy4:8 People say this: ‘If a person works to make his body strong and healthy, that will help him a little. But if a person works to live in a way that makes God happy, that will help him much more. It will help that person in his life now on earth. It will also help him in his future life with God in heaven.’" 
1Timothy4:9 We know that those words are true. Everyone should agree with them. 
1Timothy4:10 So that is why we work to serve God well. We continue to work, even when we have trouble. We do this because we believe that God will help us. He is the one who lives for ever and who saves all people. Certainly, he saves those who are believers." 
1Timothy4:11 Teach people to do these things. 
1Timothy4:12 You are still a young man, but everyone should respect you as the leader in the church. Show the believers how they should live. Be a good example to them in these ways: what you say, what you do, how you love people, how you trust God, and how you do only what is right." 
1Timothy4:13 Until I come, be careful to read the Bible aloud to people. Teach them to understand and to obey the message about Christ." 
1Timothy4:14 Remember the spiritual gift that God has given to you. You received that gift when the group of church leaders put their hands on you. They spoke messages from God about how you would serve him. So do not stop using that gift from God. 
1Timothy4:15 Be careful to do all these things well. Then everyone will see that you are serving God better and better. 
1Timothy4:16 Think carefully about how you live, and about the message that you teach. Continue to teach God's true message. Then God will save not only you, but also those people who listen to you." 
1Timothy5:1 Do not speak strongly to an older man and tell him what he must do. Instead, ask him in a kind way, as you would speak to your father. Speak to younger men as you would speak to your brothers." 
1Timothy5:2 Speak to older women as you would speak to your mother. Speak to younger women as you would speak to your sisters. Always respect them properly. 
1Timothy5:3 Respect those widows in the church who are really alone. 
1Timothy5:4 If a widow has children or grandchildren, then they should take care of her. The children must help their parents or grandparents because they belong to the same family. Their parents helped them, so they need to give them something in return. The children need to learn that important lesson. It is what God's message teaches them to do and it makes God happy." 
1Timothy5:5 Some widows are really alone and they have nobody to take care of them. A widow like that trusts God that he will help her. As a result, she prays a lot, at night and during the day, and she asks God to help her." 
1Timothy5:6 But some widows only want to enjoy themselves. For a widow like that, her spirit is already dead, even while she is still alive." 
1Timothy5:7 Teach everyone clearly to do these things. Then nobody can say that the believers are doing anything wrong. 
1Timothy5:8 Every believer must take care of his own family. Certainly, he must do that for the people who live with him in his home. If anyone does not do that, it shows that he has refused God's true message. That person is worse than someone who does not believe in Christ." 
1Timothy5:9 If you want to put a widow's name on the list of widows, this is what she must be like. She must be more than 60 years old. She must have been the wife of one husband." 
1Timothy5:10 People should know that she has done good things. For example, she must have been a good mother to her children. She must have received visitors into her home. She must have helped God's people as their servant. She must have taken care of people who had problems. She must have continued to do all kinds of good things like that." 
1Timothy5:11 But do not put the names of younger widows on the list. They may decide to marry again, because they strongly want to have sex. Then they will no longer choose to serve Christ." 
1Timothy5:12 As a result, they will stop doing what they had earlier promised to do for the church. That will make them guilty." 
1Timothy5:13 Young widows may learn to be lazy. They may go around from house to house. Not only do they become lazy, but they talk too much about silly things. They talk wrongly about other people and what they are doing. They say things that they ought not to say." 
1Timothy5:14 So I think that widows who are still young women should marry again. Then they can have children and they can take care of their own homes. If they live well like that, the enemy of God's people will not have a chance to say bad things against us." 
1Timothy5:15 Some of the younger widows have already turned away from Christ, so that they can obey Satan." 
1Timothy5:16 A woman who believes in Christ should take care of any widows in her own family. Then the church will not have to do that work. Instead, the church will be able to help those widows who are really alone." 
1Timothy5:17 Everyone should respect leaders of the believers who lead the church well. The church should also pay them properly for their work. That is certainly true for leaders who teach God's people and speak God's message to them. 
1Timothy5:18 The Bible says: ‘Do not tie shut the mouth of an ox while it walks on your wheat seeds.’ The Bible also says: ‘You must pay a worker what his work is worth.’ 
1Timothy5:19 Somebody may tell you that a leader of the believers has done something wrong. But do not accept that as true, unless two or three people say the same thing." 
1Timothy5:20 If a leader is really guilty and continues to do wrong things, you must warn him. Do that when everyone in the church is there. They will hear what you say, and they will be afraid to do wrong things themselves." 
1Timothy5:21 I say this to you very strongly: Obey what I am telling you to do. Remember that God himself and Christ Jesus, together with their special angels, are all watching what you do. Do not quickly decide if someone has done right or wrong. Be fair and judge everyone in the same way." 
1Timothy5:22 Do not hurry to put your hands on anyone to choose him as a leader of the church. Perhaps that man has done something wrong. Then people might think that you agree with his sins. You yourself must always be careful to do what is right and good. 
1Timothy5:23 I know that you often become ill. So do not drink only water, but drink a little wine. This will help your stomach to keep well." 
1Timothy5:24 Some people do wrong things that everyone can see clearly. When someone judges those people, everyone already knows that they are guilty. So everybody already knows that it is right to punish those people. But for other people, nobody knows about their sins until later." 
1Timothy5:25 It is the same with the good things that people do. Many good things are clear for everyone to see. And even the good things that people do secretly will not remain a secret for ever. 
1Timothy6:1 All slaves should know that it is right to respect their masters. Then other people will not insult God's name or the message that we teach. 
1Timothy6:2 Slaves who have masters who are also believers must continue to respect them. As believers, the slave and his master are like brothers together. But that slave must not refuse to obey his master because of that. Instead, he should work even better for his master. He should do that because he loves his master as a believer. Teach these things and tell people to obey them." 
1Timothy6:3 Some people teach a false message that is different. Their message does not agree with the true message that our Lord Jesus Christ taught. They do not teach people to live in a way that pleases God. 
1Timothy6:4 People like that think that they are very clever. But they do not really understand anything. They like to argue about things which are not important. They like to quarrel about words. As a result, people become jealous of one another, and they become angry with each other. They insult other people and they think bad things about them." 
1Timothy6:5 Their minds have become confused and they argue all the time. They refuse to believe God's true message. They think that they will become rich if they say that they are serving God. 
1Timothy6:6 What makes our life really rich? We should serve God in a way that pleases him and be happy with the things that we have. 
1Timothy6:7 When we were born, we brought nothing with us into this world. When we die, we cannot take anything with us out of the world." 
1Timothy6:8 So, if we have enough food and clothes, we should be happy with that." 
1Timothy6:9 But some people want to have lots of money. This causes them to do wrong things. They cannot get free from their bad ways, like an animal in a trap. They want many things for themselves. Their foolish thoughts hurt them and finally destroy their lives." 
1Timothy6:10 When people like to have lots of money, it causes all kinds of bad things to happen. Some people have stopped believing the message about Christ because they want to get more money. As a result, they have caused themselves to become sad with many troubles." 
1Timothy6:11 But you, Timothy, are a servant of God. So keep away from all bad things like that. Instead, always try to do what is right. Serve God in a way that pleases him. Choose to trust God and to love other people. Continue to be strong when you have trouble. Be kind to people." 
1Timothy6:12 Continue to believe God's true message. Be like someone who fights well to keep it safe. God has chosen you to live with him for ever. You stood in front of many people and said clearly that you believed in Jesus Christ. So live in a way that shows that you belong to him. 
1Timothy6:13 Christ Jesus himself spoke God's true message clearly when he stood in front of Pontius Pilate. I now say this to you, in front of God who causes all things to be alive, and in front of Jesus." 
1Timothy6:14 You must obey the commands that you have received. Obey them completely without any mistake until our Lord Jesus Christ returns. 
1Timothy6:15 God will cause Christ to appear at the proper time. God is great, and he alone rules with all authority. He is the greatest King and the most powerful Lord." 
1Timothy6:16 God alone lives for ever. He lives in very bright light that nobody can come near. Nobody has ever seen God. Nobody is able to see him. So we praise him! He will rule for ever with great authority! Amen. 
1Timothy6:17 Warn those people who are rich with many things that belong to this world. Tell them not to think that they are more important than other people. They must not think that their money will keep them safe. They could easily lose all of it. Instead, they should trust God. He gives us many things, so that we can enjoy all of them." 
1Timothy6:18 Tell those rich people to do many good things to help other people. They should be very kind to other people and share their things with them. 
1Timothy6:19 In that way they will store valuable things for themselves in heaven. These things will be a strong help for them in the future. As a result, they will have true life with God." 
1Timothy6:20 Timothy, God has given you his true message to tell people. You must keep that message safe. Do not listen to people who say a lot of silly things that are not important to God. Those people think that they have special knowledge. But their ideas are against God's true message." 
1Timothy6:21 Some people have believed those wrong ideas and now they no longer trust God. I pray that God will continue to be very kind to all of you. 
2Timothy1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. God chose me to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. God sent me to tell people about the true life that he has promised us. We receive this life when we belong to Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy1:2 I am writing to you, Timothy. You are like my own child, and I love you very much. I pray that God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord will continue to help you and be kind to you. I pray that they will give you peace in your mind." 
2Timothy1:3 Like my ancestors, I serve God in a good way, that I know is right. When I pray to God, at night and during the day, I always remember to pray for you. And I thank God for you." 
2Timothy1:4 I remember how you wept when I said ‘goodbye’ to you. I want to see you again very much, so that I may be completely happy." 
2Timothy1:5 I also remember how you truly believe in Christ. Your grandmother, Lois, and your mother, Eunice, already believed in Christ before you did. Now I am sure that you yourself also really trust him." 
2Timothy1:6 For that reason, I want you to remember the spiritual gift that God gave you when I put my hands on you. Use that gift more and more to serve God well." 
2Timothy1:7 Be strong, because God has given us his Spirit. And his Spirit does not cause us to be afraid. Instead, his Spirit causes us to be powerful to serve God. He helps us to love God and other people. And he helps us to control ourselves properly." 
2Timothy1:8 So do not be ashamed of the message about our Lord that we tell people. And do not be ashamed of me because I am in a prison. I am a prisoner because I serve Christ. You must understand that you will have trouble because you tell people the good news about Jesus Christ. So be ready to have the same kind of trouble as I have. Let God make you strong when you have trouble. 
2Timothy1:9 God is the one who has saved us. He has chosen us to serve him with good, clean lives. He did not save us because of any good things that we have done. He chose to do it because he is very kind. He decided to do that before time began, because of what Christ Jesus would do for us." 
2Timothy1:10 Now Christ Jesus has come to save us, and we have seen how kind God is. Christ has destroyed death's power over us. We have heard the good news that he brought to us. So now we understand about life with God for ever." 
2Timothy1:11 That is the same good news that God has chosen me to tell to people. He has sent me as his apostle to teach his message to people. 
2Timothy1:12 That is why I am suffering like this. But I am not ashamed to be in prison. I have believed in Christ and I know him well. I know that I can trust him to keep his message safe. God has given me the authority to speak that message to people at this time. Christ has the power to keep it safe until that great day when he comes back. 
2Timothy1:13 You have heard me tell you about God's true message. Let those words be an example to you, so that you also teach what is true. Do this because you belong to Christ Jesus. Continue to trust him and to love his people." 
2Timothy1:14 God has given you his good message to keep safe. God's Holy Spirit, who lives in us, will help you to keep it safe." 
2Timothy1:15 You know that almost all the believers in Asia region have turned against me. They include Phygelus and Hermogenes. 
2Timothy1:16 But Onesiphorus has stayed to help me. I pray that the Lord will be kind to his family. He often came to help me not to be sad. I am in prison, but he was not ashamed to help me." 
2Timothy1:17 When he came here to Rome, he looked carefully for me until he found me." 
2Timothy1:18 I pray that the Lord will be kind to Onesiphorus on that great day when he judges people. You know very well how much Onesiphorus helped me in Ephesus. 
2Timothy2:1 Timothy, you are like my own child. Let God make you strong. He is kind, so trust him to help you, because you belong to Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy2:2 You have heard the message that I have taught. Many other people also heard it and they agree that it is true. Now you must tell the same message to other people who will be able to teach it to even more people. They should be people that you can trust as honest people and who can teach well. 
2Timothy2:3 Be patient through the troubles that we Christians have. Be brave and strong, like a good soldier for Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy2:4 Any soldier who fights in a war does not become busy with other things. He only wants to fight well to make his captain happy. 
2Timothy2:5 It is the same with an athlete who runs a race. He cannot win the race unless he obeys the rules. 
2Timothy2:6 A farmer works hard to grow plants for food. So he should be the first person to receive some of that food. 
2Timothy2:7 Think carefully about what I am saying to you. The Lord will help you to understand all these things. 
2Timothy2:8 Jesus Christ is a descendant of King David. God caused Jesus to become alive again after his death. Remember that! These facts are part of the good news that I tell people. 
2Timothy2:9 And I have many troubles because I tell that good news to people. They have even put me in a prison, like someone who has done something bad. But nobody can keep God's message in a prison!" 
2Timothy2:10 So I continue to be patient and brave during all these troubles. I do that so that I can help the people that God has chosen to belong to him. I want God to save them too, because of what Christ Jesus has done for them. As a result, they will live with God for ever, in the beautiful place where he lives." 
2Timothy2:11 We all know that this is true: ‘If we have died with Christ in this world, we will also live with him in the future world." 
2Timothy2:12 If we continue to be strong during troubles here, we will also rule with him there in heaven. But if we say that we do not know Christ, he will also say that he does not know us." 
2Timothy2:13 Even if we no longer trust him, he will still be someone that people can trust. He will always remain true to his nature.’" 
2Timothy2:14 Continue to tell these things to God's people there, so that they remember them. Use God's authority and warn them not to quarrel about words. To quarrel about little things does not help anyone. Instead, it destroys those people who listen." 
2Timothy2:15 Always try very much to serve God in a way that makes him happy. Then he will accept you as a good worker that he can trust. You must teach God's true message correctly. Then you will have no reason to be ashamed of your work. 
2Timothy2:16 But stay away from people who talk about silly things that are not important to God. A message like that causes people to live more and more in a way that does not please God. 
2Timothy2:17 It causes people to become sick in their spirits. More and more people become sick as a result. Hymenaeus and Philetus are two of the people who teach that kind of false message. 
2Timothy2:18 They no longer teach God's true message. They say that God will not raise dead people any more. They say that he has already given life to dead people. In this way they have confused the minds of some people, so that they no longer believe in Christ." 
2Timothy2:19 But the group of true believers remains strong, like the foundation under a building. God has written his message there. It says, ‘The Lord knows who his own people are.’ It also says, ‘Everyone who says that he belongs to the Lord must stop doing bad things.’" 
2Timothy2:20 In a big house, there are different kinds of dishes. There are some dishes that people have made from gold or from silver. They see those dishes as valuable things. There are also dishes that people have made from wood or from clay. Those dishes are not special things and they may get dirty." 
2Timothy2:21 It is like that with people who serve God as their Master. People who keep themselves clean from those bad things will be like valuable dishes. Their master can use them for a special purpose. They will be ready for him to use them for every kind of good work. 
2Timothy2:22 Be careful not to do the kind of bad things that young people often want to do. Instead, always try to do what is right and fair. Continue to trust God. Love other people and live in peace with them. Join with people who are clean inside and who pray to the Lord." 
2Timothy2:23 Do not join with people who want to argue about silly things that do not mean anything. You know that silly things like that only cause people to quarrel. 
2Timothy2:24 As the Lord's servant, you must not quarrel. Instead, you must be kind to everyone. You must be able to teach them well. And you must be patient when people cause you to have trouble." 
2Timothy2:25 When people speak against God's true message, teach them carefully. Help them to understand what is right. Maybe God will change how they think so that they believe the true message." 
2Timothy2:26 Their minds will start to think clearly. It is the devil who has made them believe wrong things. He has made them do what he wants. Now they can get free from his power. 
2Timothy3:1 Let me tell you this. During the last days of this world, there will be times of great trouble." 
2Timothy3:2 People will love only themselves, and they will want lots of money for themselves. They will be proud and they will say how great they are. They will insult other people. They will not obey their parents. They will not thank anyone who helps them. They will not respect anything that is good." 
2Timothy3:3 They will not be kind to other people, but they will like to quarrel. They will tell lies to hurt other people. They will be unable to control themselves properly. They will be cruel and they will hate anything that is good." 
2Timothy3:4 People will turn against their friends. They will do foolish things. They will boast that they are very important. They will not love God, but instead they will only want to enjoy themselves." 
2Timothy3:5 Those people will seem to be serving God. But really they refuse to accept God's power to help them. You must stay away from people like that. 
2Timothy3:6 Among those people, there are some men who find a way into people's homes. They get power over silly women who feel very guilty about their sins. Those women want to do wrong things and they cannot stop themselves." 
2Timothy3:7 They are always trying to learn new things, but they can never really understand God's true message." 
2Timothy3:8 These are people who speak against God's true message, in the same way that Jannes and Jambres spoke against Moses. Their minds have become confused. The way that they serve God is false." 
2Timothy3:9 But they will not continue to do many more bad things. Everyone will see clearly that they are fools. That is what happened to Jannes and Jambres. 
2Timothy3:10 But you, Timothy, have heard my message and you know it well. You also know the way in which I have lived. You know my purpose in life. You know how I trust God. You know how patient I have been. You know my love for God and for other people. You know that I have been strong during troubles." 
2Timothy3:11 You also know what happened to me in the cities of Antioch, Iconium and Lystra. People caused me to suffer very much in those places. But I was patient and brave in those bad troubles! And the Lord kept me safe in all those dangerous times." 
2Timothy3:12 It is not only me. Every Christian who wants to live in a way that pleases God will have trouble from other people. 
2Timothy3:13 Bad people like that will become even worse. Some of them will teach a false message and people will believe their lies. Those false teachers even believe their own lies! 
2Timothy3:14 But you must continue to believe the things that you have learned. You know that those things are true. You know the teachers who taught you those things. 
2Timothy3:15 Even when you were a child, you already knew the message of the Bible. The Bible has taught you how you can be truly wise. You understand that God saves you because you believe in Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy3:16 Everything that is written in the Bible comes from God's Spirit. It helps us in many ways. The Bible teaches us what is true. It warns us when we are doing wrong things. It shows us what is right. It teaches us how to live good lives. 
2Timothy3:17 As a result, people who want to serve God can know how to live properly. They will be people who are ready to do all kinds of good things." 
2Timothy4:1 Timothy, I tell you this seriously, as God and Christ Jesus see everything that we do. When Christ Jesus comes to rule as king, he will judge everyone. He will judge the people who are alive and also those who have already died. When he appears, he will decide what should happen to them all. So I tell you this now:" 
2Timothy4:2 Tell God's message to people. Always be ready to speak God's message clearly to people, whether they want to listen to you or not. Warn people when they are doing something wrong. Tell them to stop doing wrong things, and explain to them what they ought to do. But be very patient while you teach them what is true." 
2Timothy4:3 Do this, because a time will come when people will not listen to God's true message. Instead, they will want to hear all kinds of new messages that will make them happy. So they will find many teachers for themselves who will tell them what they want to hear." 
2Timothy4:4 People will refuse to listen to God's true message. Instead, they will want to listen to silly stories that are false." 
2Timothy4:5 But you yourself must continue to think seriously and clearly. Be patient and brave when troubles come. Continue to tell the good news about Christ to people. Do all the work that God has given you to do as his servant. 
2Timothy4:6 As for me, it is nearly time for me to die. My death will be like a drink offering that they pour out to God. My life as God's servant will end." 
2Timothy4:7 I have worked to serve Christ well. I have finished everything that God wanted me to do. I am like a runner who has run to the end of the race. I have continued to believe God's true message. 
2Timothy4:8 So now a gift is waiting for me. The Lord will make me completely right with him. That will be like a crown which the Lord will give me on that great day when he judges people. He is the judge who is fair and right. He will not only give that gift to me. He will give it to all those people who love him. They will be happy to see him when he comes again. 
2Timothy4:9 Timothy, please come to see me as soon as you can." 
2Timothy4:10 Demas has left me and he has gone to Thessalonica city. He wanted to enjoy the things of this world too much. Crescens has gone to Galatia region. Titus has gone to Dalmatia region. 
2Timothy4:10 Demas has left me and he has gone to Thessalonica city. He wanted to enjoy the things of this world too much. Crescens has gone to Galatia region. Titus has gone to Dalmatia region. 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me now. Bring Mark with you when you come. He can help me very much with the work for God. 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me now. Bring Mark with you when you come. He can help me very much with the work for God. 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me now. Bring Mark with you when you come. He can help me very much with the work for God. 
2Timothy4:12 I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus. 
2Timothy4:13 I left a coat with Carpus in Troas. Bring it when you come. Also bring the books for me. If you cannot bring all of them, then be sure to bring my special papers." 
2Timothy4:14 Alexander, the man who makes things from metal, caused a lot of trouble for me. The Lord will punish him because of the wrong things that he did." 
2Timothy4:15 You must also be careful that he does not cause trouble for you. He argued very strongly against our message. 
2Timothy4:16 I had to explain to a judge that I had not done anything wrong. The first time I did that, nobody helped me. All my friends stayed away. I pray that God will forgive them for that." 
2Timothy4:17 But the Lord was there to help me. He made me strong so that I could tell his message clearly. Gentile people from many countries could hear what I said. So the Lord saved me from the danger of death. 
2Timothy4:18 The Lord will continue to save me from every bad thing. And he will bring me safely to heaven, where he rules. He is great and we should praise him for ever! Amen." 
2Timothy4:19 Say ‘hello’ for me to Priscilla and Aquila, and to the family of Onesiphorus." 
2Timothy4:20 Erastus remained at Corinth city. I left Trophimus at Miletus city because he was ill. 
2Timothy4:21 Please try to come before the winter. Eubulus, Pudens, Linus and Claudia say ‘hello’ to you. All the other believers here also say ‘hello’." 
2Timothy4:22 I pray that the Lord will continue to make you strong in your spirit. I pray that he will be kind to all of you. 
Titus1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. I am God's servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. God has sent me to help the people that he has chosen. I teach them to understand his true message and to trust him. As a result they will live in a way that pleases God." 
Titus1:2 They will also be sure that they will live with God for ever. Before the world began, God promised that his people would have life with him. And God never tells lies." 
Titus1:3 God is the one who saves us. Now, at the proper time, he has made his message clear. He has given his message to me so that I can tell it to people. That is what he has told me to do." 
Titus1:4 I am writing to you, Titus. I told you the message about Jesus and now we both believe in him. So you are like my own child. I pray that God the Father and Christ Jesus our Saviour will continue to help you. I pray that they will give you peace in your mind." 
Titus1:5 I left you in Crete so that you could finish certain things. You should make right some things that were wrong. And you should choose leaders of the believers in every town, as I told you." 
Titus1:6 This is what a leader in the church must be like. Nobody should have a reason to say that he has done something wrong. He must be the husband of only one wife. He must have children who respect him. Nobody should say that they enjoy bad things or that they do not obey their parents. 
Titus1:7 A leader in the church serves the believers on God's behalf. Because of that, nobody should have a reason to say that the leader has done anything wrong. A leader must not be proud. He must not become angry easily. He should not like to drink too much wine. He must not be someone who likes to fight. He must not want to get a lot of money for himself." 
Titus1:8 Instead, a leader in the church must be happy to have visitors in his home. He must want to do good things. He must be careful in how he lives. He must do what is right. He must want to serve God well. He must control himself well." 
Titus1:9 He must continue to believe the true message very well. That is the message which we have taught. Then he will be able to teach people what is true and right. He will also show that people who speak against the true message are wrong. 
Titus1:10 I say this because there are many people who refuse to obey their leaders. They speak about useless things and they deceive people. Many of them want the believers to obey all the Jewish rules. 
Titus1:11 You must stop those people from teaching false things like that. They are causing whole families to believe their lies. They teach things that they should not teach. They deceive people because they want people to give them money. 
Titus1:12 Many years ago, there was a certain man who lived on Crete. The people there called him their prophet. Even he said, ‘People who live on Crete are always telling lies and doing wicked things. They are lazy and they eat too much food.’" 
Titus1:13 What that man said is true. So you must warn the people there. Help them to believe the true message about Jesus more and more. 
Titus1:14 They must not listen to Jewish stories or to human rules. Those things are the ideas of people who refuse to obey God's true message. 
Titus1:15 If someone is clean and good inside, everything is clean and good for them to enjoy. But if someone is not a believer and has an unclean mind, nothing is clean or good for that person. Their minds no longer think properly. They no longer feel guilty when they do something wrong." 
Titus1:16 People like that say that they know God. But they do disgusting things. This shows that they do not know him. They are completely bad. They refuse to obey God. They are not able to do anything good. 
Titus2:1 But as for you, Titus, you must teach people to do what is right. Teach them only the things that belong to God's true message." 
Titus2:2 Tell the older men to control themselves properly. They must think carefully about how they live, so that people respect them. They must continue to believe in Christ. They must continue to love other people. They must continue to be patient and strong." 
Titus2:3 Also, tell the older women to live in a good way. Their lives must show that they respect God. They must not say bad things about other people. They must not be drunks. They must teach what is good." 
Titus2:4 In this way, they can teach the young women how they should live. As a result, the young women will love their husbands and their children." 
Titus2:5 The young women will control themselves well and be pure in how they live. They will be good housewives who are kind to other people. They will respect their husbands. If they live in a good way like that, nobody will be able to say bad things about God's message." 
Titus2:6 As for the young men, tell them also to control themselves wisely in how they live." 
Titus2:7 You yourself must always do good things too. In that way, you will show the young men how they should live. When you teach the believers, be honest and serious." 
Titus2:8 Teach a message that is correct, so that nobody can say anything against it. Then our enemies will be ashamed, because they cannot say anything bad about us." 
Titus2:9 As for slaves, tell them to obey their masters always. They must not argue with their masters. Instead, they should work well to please their masters." 
Titus2:10 Slaves must not take things that belong to their masters. Their masters must be able to trust them completely. Then people will respect the message that we teach about God, our Saviour." 
Titus2:11 God has shown us clearly how very kind he is. He has come to save all people. 
Titus2:12 Because God is kind, he teaches us to stop living in a bad way. We no longer do the bad things that do not make God happy. We turn away from the bad things that belong to this world. God teaches us to control ourselves wisely while we live in this world. He teaches us to do what is right. He teaches us to please him in the way that we live." 
Titus2:13 We are waiting for Jesus Christ to return to this world. When he comes, that will make us very happy. Everyone will see how great Jesus Christ is. He is our great God. He is the one who saves us from our sins." 
Titus2:14 He gave himself as a sacrifice on our behalf. He did that to make us free from every kind of bad thing. As a result, we can be completely good and clean inside ourselves. We can become his own special people, who want to do good things." 
Titus2:15 You must teach these things to the believers. Help them to live in a good way. Warn them when they do wrong things. Use all the authority that you have as a leader in the church. Make sure that everyone respects you properly. 
Titus3:1 Tell the believers there to respect the government and those who have authority. They must remember to obey their rulers. They must always be ready to help other people. 
Titus3:2 They must not say bad things about anyone. They must not quarrel with people. Instead, they should be kind and polite to everyone." 
Titus3:3 Before we believed in Christ, we ourselves were fools too. We did not obey God. We believed a false message. We wanted to do many kinds of bad things to make us happy. We could not stop doing them. Every day we did evil things. We were jealous of other people. People hated us, and we hated each other." 
Titus3:4 But then God, our Saviour, showed clearly that he is very kind. He showed that he loves all people." 
Titus3:5 God did not save us because of any good things that we ourselves had done. He saved us because he chose to forgive us. God has washed us so that we are clean inside. We have been born again, so that we live a new life. God's Holy Spirit has done this for us." 
Titus3:6 Jesus Christ died as a sacrifice to save us. So now God has poured his Holy Spirit into us, to fill us." 
Titus3:7 Because God is very kind, he has accepted us as right with himself. As a result, we know that we will receive the good things that God has prepared for us. We know that we will live with God for ever." 
Titus3:8 That message is certainly true. So you must teach people the things that I have said in this letter. Make sure that they understand them well. Then the people who have believed in God will be careful to do good things. Good things like that will help everyone. 
Titus3:9 But stay away from people who argue about silly things. They study long lists of their families' names from years ago. Refuse to quarrel with people like that. Refuse to argue about the rules in God's Law. All those kinds of things have no value and they do not help anyone. 
Titus3:10 If someone teaches a false message that causes trouble, warn him. If you warn him twice and he still does not stop, stay away from him." 
Titus3:11 You know that a person like that has chosen not to believe the true message. He knows that he is doing a bad thing, but he continues to do it." 
Titus3:12 I will send either Artemas or Tychicus to you. After one of them has arrived, please come to meet me in Nicopolis. Come as quickly as you can. I have decided that I will stay in Nicopolis during the winter." 
Titus3:13 Please help Zenas, the lawyer, and Apollos as much as you can. Make sure that they have everything that they need for their journey." 
Titus3:14 Our Christian friends there must learn to do good things. They should supply things to people who need help. That will show that their lives are really useful. 
Titus3:15 Everyone who is here with me says ‘hello’ to you. Please say ‘hello’ on our behalf to the believers there who love us. I pray that God will continue to be very kind to all of you. 
Philemon1:1 This letter is from me, Paul. I am in prison because I serve Christ Jesus. Our Christian friend Timothy is here with me. We are writing to you, Philemon. You are our friend, and we love you. You work on behalf of Christ, as we do." 
Philemon1:2 We say ‘hello’ also to Apphia, who is like a sister to us. And we say ‘hello’ to Archippus, who serves Christ like a soldier, as we do. We also say ‘hello’ to the group of Christians who meet in your home." 
Philemon1:3 I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to help you. I pray that they will give you peace in your minds." 
Philemon1:4 When I pray for you, I always thank my God as I think about you." 
Philemon1:5 I thank God because people tell me good things about you. You love all God's people and you trust in the Lord Jesus. 
Philemon1:6 We each have the same faith in Christ as we serve him. So I pray that, as a result, you will become strong. I pray that you will understand more about every good thing that is ours because of Christ." 
Philemon1:7 My friend, you have helped God's people to feel stronger. Your love for them has made me very happy. It makes me feel stronger too." 
Philemon1:8 I want to ask you to do something. I am sure that Christ has given me authority. So I could tell you strongly what you should do. 
Philemon1:9 But instead, because of love, I will ask you, ‘Please do it.’ I, Paul, am an old man. Also, I am in prison now because I serve Christ Jesus." 
Philemon1:10 So I am asking you to help Onesimus, who is like my own child. I taught him about Jesus while I was in prison. Because of that, he now has life with God. I am like his father." 
Philemon1:11 Before he trusted Jesus, Onesimus did not really help you. But now he can help both you and me." 
Philemon1:12 So I am now sending him back to you. He is someone that I love very much. 
Philemon1:13 I wanted to keep him here with me, to help me on your behalf. I am in prison here because I taught people the good news about Jesus." 
Philemon1:14 But I did not want to do anything unless you agreed. I wanted you to help me because you really want to help. I did not want to make you do it. 
Philemon1:15 When Onesimus ran away from you, perhaps God let that happen. Onesimus left you for a short time so that you could now have him back for ever." 
Philemon1:16 You can have him back again not only as your slave. He will be something much better than a slave for you. He will be like a brother that you love. I love him very much. But now you will love him even more. He will serve you as a slave, but he will also serve the Lord, as you do." 
Philemon1:17 I am your friend. Together we serve God. If you agree with that, please be kind to Onesimus. Accept him in the same way that you would accept me." 
Philemon1:18 If Onesimus has done anything wrong to you, I will make it right again. If he took money from you, I will pay it back." 
Philemon1:19 I, Paul, am writing this myself: ‘I will pay the money back to you.’ But you should remember what I have already given to you. You have life with God because I told you the good news about Jesus." 
Philemon1:20 Yes, my friend, please help me now, because we both belong to the Lord. As a Christian friend, help me to feel happier." 
Philemon1:21 I am sure that you will do what I ask. That is why I have written this letter to you. I know that you will do even more than this to help me. 
Philemon1:22 I want to ask you one more thing. Please prepare a room in your home where I can stay. I know that all of you are praying for God to let me go free. As a result, I hope that I will be able to visit you again." 
Philemon1:23 Epaphras is also here in prison with me because he serves Christ Jesus. He says ‘hello’ to you. 
Philemon1:24 Mark, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke, who work with me here, also say ‘hello’ to you." 
Philemon1:24 Mark, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke, who work with me here, also say ‘hello’ to you." 
Philemon1:24 Mark, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke, who work with me here, also say ‘hello’ to you." 
Philemon1:25 I pray that the Lord Jesus Christ will continue to be very kind to all of you. 
Hebrews1:1 Many years ago, God spoke to our ancestors by his prophets. He spoke many times and in many different ways." 
Hebrews1:2 But in these last days, he has spoken to us in his Son. In the beginning, God worked through his Son to make the whole universe. He decided that everything should belong to his Son." 
Hebrews1:3 The Son shows us completely what God is like. He shines with God's great glory. His nature is the same as God's nature. The Son's powerful word causes everything to continue. He himself made it possible for us to be clean from our sins. After he had done that, he returned to heaven. He went and he sat at the right side of God, who rules with all authority." 
Hebrews1:4 That shows us that God's Son is much greater than the angels. God has given him a name that shows he is more important than they are. 
Hebrews1:5 God never said this to any angel: ‘You are my Son. Today I have become your Father.’ In another place in the Bible, God says, ‘I will be his Father, and he will be my Son.’" 
Hebrews1:6 Also, when God was ready to bring his firstborn Son into the world, he said: ‘All God's angels must worship him.’" 
Hebrews1:7 God speaks about the angels like this: ‘God makes his angels like winds. They serve him like fires that burn brightly.’ 
Hebrews1:8 But this is what God says to his Son: ‘You are God and you will rule as King for ever! You will rule your kingdom in a completely good way. 
Hebrews1:9 You love everything that is right. And you hate everything that is wrong. Because of that, you will be completely happy. I am your God and I have blessed you. I have chosen you to be greater than all other people.’" 
Hebrews1:10 God also says this to his Son: ‘ Lord, in the beginning you made the earth. With your own power, you also made everything above the earth." 
Hebrews1:11 All these things will come to an end. But as for you, you will continue for ever. Like clothes, those things will all become old." 
Hebrews1:12 Then you will put them away like an old coat. You will change them, like people change clothes. But you will always continue to be the same. Your life will never come to an end.’" 
Hebrews1:13 Also, God has never said this to any of the angels: ‘Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies completely. Then you will be able to put your feet on them.’" 
Hebrews1:14 So we see that all the angels are spirits who serve God. God sends them as his servants to help the people that he will save. 
Hebrews2:1 So we must be very careful. We must continue to remember the message that we have heard about God's Son. Then we will not go in the wrong direction, and turn away from God." 
Hebrews2:2 The message that God spoke by angels was certainly powerful. God punished people when they did not obey the Law that he gave to Moses. He punished people who did anything wrong, as they deserved." 
Hebrews2:3 As for us, God has shown us the way that he will save us from our sins. So we must not forget God's message about his great way to save us. If we do, he will certainly punish us. The Lord Jesus himself first spoke that message about how God would save people. Then the people who heard Jesus told the message to us. That is how we know that it is true." 
Hebrews2:4 God himself also showed clearly that what these people said is true. He did many miracles and powerful things which showed that he was with them. He also helped them with gifts from the Holy Spirit, in the way that he wanted." 
Hebrews2:5 We are speaking about the new world that will come. God did not choose angels to rule over that world. 
Hebrews2:6 No! Instead, someone wrote this somewhere in the Bible: ‘ Lord God, why do you even think about people? You take care of men and women, even though they seem to be so small." 
Hebrews2:7 For a short time, you made them less important than the angels. But then you made them great and powerful, like kings." 
Hebrews2:8 You caused them to rule over everything.’ It says that God has caused people to rule over everything. That means that there is nothing that people do not have authority over. But at this time, we do not yet see that people rule over everything." 
Hebrews2:9 But we do see Jesus! God made him less important than the angels for a short time. And now God has made him the great and powerful king. God did this because Jesus died as a sacrifice on behalf of all people. His death showed that God is very kind. 
Hebrews2:10 It was right that God should bring Jesus back to heaven as king. All things belong to God, and he causes all things to continue. God wanted many people to become his children. He wanted them to live with him in heaven. Jesus made this possible because he died with much pain as a sacrifice." 
Hebrews2:11 Jesus is the one who makes people clean in front of God. Jesus himself and all the people that he makes clean have the same Father. So Jesus is not ashamed to call all those people his brothers and sisters. 
Hebrews2:12 He says this to God: ‘I will tell my brothers and sisters that you are great. When your people meet together, I will stand with them, and I will praise you with songs.’" 
Hebrews2:13 He also says this: ‘I will trust God completely.’ He says this too: ‘I stand here with the children that God has given me.’ 
Hebrews2:14 So, those people who become God's children are human. They have human bodies. Because of that, Jesus himself became human like us. In that way, when he died he was able to destroy the devil. It is the devil who has power over death." 
Hebrews2:15 Before, we were like slaves all our lives because we were afraid of death. But now, Jesus' death makes us free." 
Hebrews2:16 It is clear that Jesus did not come to help the angels. He came to help people who are from Abraham's family. 
Hebrews2:17 Because of that, it was necessary for Jesus to become completely like us, his brothers and sisters. He had to become God's servant on our behalf, like God's most important priest. In that way, he could serve God well and be kind to us. He died as a sacrifice so that God could forgive us for our sins." 
Hebrews2:18 While Jesus lived on earth, the devil tried to make him do wrong things. This caused Jesus to have much pain and trouble. But because of that, he can now help us not to do wrong things." 
Hebrews3:1 So, Christian friends, think carefully about who Jesus is. Like us, God has chosen you to serve him. We tell people that we believe in Jesus as the messenger that God has sent. He helps us as God's great priest." 
Hebrews3:2 God is the one who chose him for this work. He serves God faithfully, as Moses also faithfully served God's people long ago." 
Hebrews3:3 We know that someone who builds a house is more important than the house itself. In the same way, we should praise Jesus more than we praise Moses, because Jesus is greater." 
Hebrews3:4 Every house has someone who built it. But God is the one who has built all things. 
Hebrews3:5 We say that Moses served God well, like a servant in God's house. He took care of all God's people. In this way, Moses showed clearly the message that God would speak later." 
Hebrews3:6 But Christ serves in God's house as a son, not only as a servant. He is the leader of God's family. We belong to God's family if we continue to believe in Christ. We must be brave. We must continue to show people clearly that we trust God. He will do what he has promised to do." 
Hebrews3:7 God's Holy Spirit says this: ‘You must listen when you hear God speak today. 
Hebrews3:8 Do not refuse to obey him. Do not be like God's people many years ago. When they travelled in the wilderness, they turned against me. They wanted to see if I would punish them." 
Hebrews3:9 For 40 years your ancestors saw the great things that I did. But still they did not obey me. 
Hebrews3:10 That is why I became angry with them. I said, “They always want to do what is wrong. They refuse to understand my message.”" 
Hebrews3:11 Because of that, I promised to punish them. Because I was angry with them, I said, “They will never arrive in my special place of rest.” ’" 
Hebrews3:12 So be careful, my Christian friends. Do not refuse to trust God. That would be a very bad thing to do. Do not turn away from the God who lives for ever." 
Hebrews3:13 Instead, help each other to be strong every day. Today, you can still hear God's message. While that is still true, do not refuse to obey God. Do not think that sin will not hurt you. That is a lie." 
Hebrews3:14 We must continue to trust Christ very well, as we did when we first believed in him. We must continue to trust him until the end of our lives. Then we will share in everything that is his." 
Hebrews3:15 We have seen what the Bible says: ‘You must listen when you hear God speak today. Do not refuse to obey him. Do not be like God's people many years ago, when they turned against God.’" 
Hebrews3:16 Who were those people who heard God speak? All of them were the people that Moses led away from Egypt. They heard God's message, but they refused to obey him." 
Hebrews3:17 Who was God angry with for 40 years? He was angry with those same people. They did what was wrong. So they died and their bodies remained in the wilderness. 
Hebrews3:18 God promised to punish them, because they refused to obey him. He said, ‘They will never arrive in my special place of rest.’" 
Hebrews3:19 So we must be careful ourselves! Those people did not trust God. As a result, they never arrived in God's special place." 
Hebrews4:1 God promised his people that they could go to his special place of rest. That promise is still true for us today. So we must be very careful. Do not fail to arrive in that place. We certainly do not want that to happen. 
Hebrews4:2 We have heard God's good news, just like God's people in the wilderness heard his message. But that message did not help them, because they did not believe it. They did not trust God, like those who obeyed him." 
Hebrews4:3 But those of us who trust God do enjoy his special place of rest. This is what God said: ‘Because I was angry with them, I promised this: “They will never arrive in my special place of rest.” ’ God said that, even though he had finished his work when he made the world." 
Hebrews4:4 In the Bible God has spoken about the seventh day like this: ‘God rested from all his work on the seventh day.’ 
Hebrews4:5 As we have already seen, God said something later about his rest: ‘They will never arrive in my special place of rest.’" 
Hebrews4:6 So we see that there is still a chance for people to go to God's place of rest. But those people who first heard God's message in the wilderness refused to obey him. As a result, they did not arrive in his special place of rest." 
Hebrews4:7 So God chose another time for people to go to his place of rest. He called it ‘Today’. A long time after Moses, David spoke God's message. As we already know, he said: ‘You must listen when you hear God speak today. Do not refuse to obey him.’" 
Hebrews4:8 This shows that Joshua did not bring God's people to the place where they could rest. Later, God had to speak again about another day of rest." 
Hebrews4:9 So we see this: God still has a place ready for his people, where they can rest. They will rest as God rested on the seventh day." 
Hebrews4:10 When God made the world and everything, he rested after he had finished his work. It is the same for everyone who goes to God's place of rest. They too will rest. They will no longer need to work." 
Hebrews4:11 So we must do everything possible to arrive in God's special place of rest. God's people in the wilderness did not obey him. We must not be like them. If we do not obey God, we also will fail to arrive in that place." 
Hebrews4:12 So be careful! God's message to us is alive and powerful. It is like a sword that has two sharp edges. Even more than a sword, God's message goes very deep into us. It cuts between our soul and our spirit. It is like a sharp knife that can cut deep into our body between our bones. God's message shows what we are really thinking. It shows what we really want." 
Hebrews4:13 There is nothing in the whole world that can hide from God. He sees everything clearly and he knows everything. We will have to explain to him everything that we have done during our lives. 
Hebrews4:14 Jesus, the Son of God, helps us as God's most important priest. He is our great priest who has gone up into heaven. We say that we believe in him. So we must continue to show people that we trust him." 
Hebrews4:15 Jesus, our great priest understands us. He knows how weak we are. He knows that we sometimes want to do wrong things. The devil tried to make him do all those same kinds of wrong things. But Jesus never did anything wrong." 
Hebrews4:16 So we should come near to God and we should not be afraid. God is our King. We can ask him to help us when we need help. We know that he will forgive us and he will be kind to us in whatever way we need. 
Hebrews5:1 Every leader of God's priests comes from among the people. That special priest's work is to serve God on behalf of God's people. He offers gifts and sacrifices to God, so that God will forgive the people's sins." 
Hebrews5:2 That priest himself may often do wrong things, because he is weak and human. As a result, he understands other people who make mistakes. He can be kind to people who do wrong things." 
Hebrews5:3 He offers sacrifices to God on behalf of the people. But he himself also does wrong things, so he must offer sacrifices for his own sins too." 
Hebrews5:4 Nobody decides for himself to become a leader of the priests. God himself must choose him. That is how Aaron became a priest. 
Hebrews5:5 It is the same with Christ. He did not choose himself to be God's great priest. He did not choose to make himself important like that. God chose him. God showed that Christ was very important. God said to him: ‘You are my Son. Today I have become your Father.’ 
Hebrews5:6 And in another place in the Bible God says this: ‘You will be a priest for ever, in the same way that Melchizedek was a priest long ago.’" 
Hebrews5:7 When Jesus Christ lived on earth as a man, he prayed to God. He asked God to help him. He prayed strongly and he cried loudly with many tears. He knew that God could save him from death. And God listened to Jesus when he prayed, because Jesus respected his authority." 
Hebrews5:8 Jesus is God's Son, but it was necessary for him to suffer. In that way, he learned to obey God completely." 
Hebrews5:9 As a result, Jesus became the person who can save everyone who obeys him. Because of Jesus, God forgives their sins for ever." 
Hebrews5:10 God has chosen Jesus to be his great priest in the same way that Melchizedek was. 
Hebrews5:11 We have a lot more to say to you about these things. But you are slow to understand things. As a result, it is difficult to explain any more to you." 
Hebrews5:12 After all this time as believers in Jesus, you ought to be teachers. Instead of that, you still need someone to teach you the first lessons about God's message. You have become like babies, who need milk instead of proper food." 
Hebrews5:13 Anyone who still thinks like a baby does not yet understand God's message about what is right. It is as if they are still drinking only milk. 
Hebrews5:14 People who have grown up eat proper food. In the same way, people who have been believers for a long time should understand more about God's message. They should have learned about what is good and about what is bad. They should know the difference between these." 
Hebrews6:1 So we must go on from the first lessons that we learned about Christ. We must grow as believers so that we understand more and more. We should not go back to those first lessons again and again. We already know that we must turn away from wrong things that lead to death. We know that we must trust God. 
Hebrews6:2 We have already learned about how to become clean. We know that leaders put their hands on other Christians to pray for God's help. We know that God will raise dead people to live again. And we know that God will judge every person one day at the end of time. 
Hebrews6:3 Yes, we must choose to go on from those early lessons! God is ready to help us to do that." 
Hebrews6:4 We must not turn away from Christ, after we have first believed in him. Some people have come into God's light. They have understood God's message. They have started to enjoy the true life that God has given them. They have received the Holy Spirit, like other believers." 
Hebrews6:5 They have started to enjoy God's good message. They have seen powerful things that belong to the future time. 
Hebrews6:6 But after all that, they have turned against God. Then it is impossible for them to turn away from their sins again. It is like they are killing the Son of God on the cross again for themselves. In this way, they cause other people to insult Christ." 
Hebrews6:7 Think about a field where rain has fallen many times. That ground helps the plants in it to grow well. As a result, the farmer receives good things. It shows that God has blessed that ground." 
Hebrews6:8 But a field where only weeds and thorn bushes grow is worth nothing. God will very soon curse that ground. In the end, fire will burn all of it." 
Hebrews6:9 We are telling you this, our good friends, because we want you to continue well. We are sure that God has saved you and that your lives are better as a result." 
Hebrews6:10 God is always right and fair. He will not forget all the good things that you have done. You have shown that you love him very much, because you have helped the other believers. And you continue to help them as God's servants." 
Hebrews6:11 But we very much want each of you to continue to trust God to the end. Show that you really want to serve him. Be sure that, in the end, you will receive all the good things that you hope for." 
Hebrews6:12 Then you will not be lazy. Instead, you will copy the example of those people who continue to trust God. They continue to be patient when trouble happens to them. People like that receive what God has promised to his people." 
Hebrews6:13 God made a promise to Abraham many years ago. God used the authority of his own name to show that his promise was true. He did that because there was nobody greater than himself. His name showed that the promise was very serious. 
Hebrews6:14 God said to Abraham, ‘I will certainly bless you. I will give you many children and many descendants.’" 
Hebrews6:15 Abraham waited patiently for a long time. Finally, he received what God had promised him." 
Hebrews6:16 When someone makes a strong promise, he uses the authority of a person who is greater than himself. This shows that he will certainly obey his promise. Then nobody can argue about it." 
Hebrews6:17 God wanted to show very clearly that he would never change his purpose. He wanted his people to know that he would certainly bless them. So when he made this promise, he also used his own name to make it strong." 
Hebrews6:18 These two things can never change. God cannot tell a lie. As a result, we can be brave and strong. We have trusted God to keep us safe with him. He will bless us as he has promised to do. We are sure about that." 
Hebrews6:19 We know that we will receive what God has promised to give us. This keeps our thoughts strong. We know that our life is safe with God. That hope is like an anchor that keeps a ship safe. We know that we will one day arrive in God's special place in heaven. That is like the Most Holy Place place behind the curtain in the tabernacle. 
Hebrews6:20 Jesus has already gone in there. He has gone there to open a way for us. He has become our great priest for ever, in the same way that Melchizedek was God's priest." 
Hebrews7:1 Melchizedek was the king of a city called Salem. He was also a priest of God who rules over all. Melchizedek met Abraham when Abraham was returning from a war. Abraham's men had just won a battle against four kings with their armies. At that time, Melchizedek asked God to bless Abraham." 
Hebrews7:2 Abraham gave Melchizedek a tenth part of everything that he had won in the fight. The name ‘Melchizedek’ means ‘king of everything that is right’. His other name, ‘king of Salem’, means ‘king of peace ’." 
Hebrews7:3 Nobody wrote down that Melchizedek had a father or a mother. Nobody wrote down that he had any ancestors. Nobody wrote about when he was born or when he died. In that way, it seems like Melchizedek was a priest for ever. He is like the Son of God who continues to be a priest for all time." 
Hebrews7:4 So think about how great this man, Melchizedek, was! Even Abraham, the ancestor of all Israel's people, gave gifts to Melchizedek. Abraham gave him a tenth part of everything that he had won in the fight." 
Hebrews7:5 The descendants of Levi who become priests receive gifts from their own people. God's Law says that the people must give the Levite priests a tenth part of what they have. But the priests and the other people are all descendants of Abraham. 
Hebrews7:6 As for Melchizedek, he was not a descendant of Levi. But he still received a tenth part of what Abraham had. He also asked God to bless Abraham. But Abraham was the one who had already received God's promises." 
Hebrews7:7 It is always the more important person who asks God to bless a less important person. We certainly know that! 
Hebrews7:8 The Levite priests receive gifts, and they are people who one day will die. Melchizedek also received gifts, but we are told that he continues to live." 
Hebrews7:9 The Levite priests receive their gifts from the people. But we could say that Levi himself gave a tenth part of what he had to Melchizedek. When Abraham gave his tenth part to Melchizedek, it was like Levi was there inside him. At that time, Levi was not yet born, but Abraham was his ancestor." 
Hebrews7:10  
Hebrews7:11 The Levite priests were a necessary part of God's Law for Israel's people. But those priests could not make the people completely right with God. If that had been possible, the Levite priests could have continued their work. But we see that God has chosen a different kind of priest to serve him. That priest is not someone from Aaron's family, as the Levite priests were. Instead, he is a priest in the same way that Melchizedek was God's priest." 
Hebrews7:12 When there is a change in the kind of priest like that, there must also be a change in the law." 
Hebrews7:13 It is the Lord Jesus Christ that the Bible speaks about in this way, as God's special priest. But he belongs to a different tribe. He is not a Levite. Nobody else from his tribe ever served God as a priest." 
Hebrews7:14 We know that our Lord came from Judah's tribe. Moses never said that priests could come from Judah's tribe. So we see that the old law has changed. 
Hebrews7:15 What we have said becomes even clearer now. Another kind of priest has come, who is a priest like Melchizedek." 
Hebrews7:16 Jesus did not become a priest because of a law about which family he came from. He became God's priest because of his powerful life that nothing could ever destroy. 
Hebrews7:17 The Bible speaks about him as a priest like this: ‘You will be a priest for ever, in the same way that Melchizedek was God's priest.’" 
Hebrews7:18 So the old law about priests no longer has authority. It could not help people and it was useless. 
Hebrews7:19 God's Laws that he gave to Moses could not make anything completely right. But now God has brought us something better to hope for. And in that way, we ourselves can come near to God." 
Hebrews7:20 Also, when God said that Jesus would be his special priest, he made a strong promise. When the Levites became priests, he did not make a strong promise like that." 
Hebrews7:21 But when Jesus became God's priest, God made a strong promise. God said: ‘The Lord God has promised this. He will not change his mind. You will be a priest for ever.’" 
Hebrews7:22 Because God promised that to Jesus, we know that his new covenant with his people is very strong. It is a much better covenant than the old one." 
Hebrews7:23 In the past, there were many Levite priests. Each one of them died and they could not continue to serve God as priests." 
Hebrews7:24 But Jesus lives for ever, so he will never stop being a priest." 
Hebrews7:25 Jesus is alive and he is always asking God to help his people. So he can completely save everyone who believes in him. He will lead them to God. 
Hebrews7:26 Jesus is the kind of great priest that we need. He completely belongs to God. He has never done anything wrong. He is completely good and clean. He is separate from everyone who does wrong things. God has raised him up to the most important place in heaven. 
Hebrews7:27 Jesus is not like the Levite priests. They needed to offer sacrifices to God every day. First, they offered sacrifices so that God would forgive their own sins. Then they offered sacrifices on behalf of the other people, so that God would forgive their sins too. But Jesus offered one sacrifice for all time. That sacrifice was himself." 
Hebrews7:28 In the old covenant, Moses' laws decided who would become leaders of the priests. Because those men are weak, they often do wrong things. But God's strong promise came after the Law that he gave to Moses. With that promise, God chose his Son to be his great priest. And his Son has become everything that God wants him to be, completely and for ever." 
Hebrews8:1 The most important thing that we are saying is this: In Jesus, we do have this kind of great priest. He has now sat down to rule with God in heaven. He sits at the right side of God, who rules with all authority." 
Hebrews8:2 He serves as priest in heaven on our behalf. He is in God's very special place, near to God himself. It is like the special place in the tabernacle of long ago. But it is not a tent that people have made. The Lord himself has made this special place, and it is the true tabernacle." 
Hebrews8:3 It is the duty of every leader of the priests to offer gifts and sacrifices to God. So Jesus, as our great priest, must also have something to offer." 
Hebrews8:4 If he were now living on earth, then he would not be a priest. There are already priests on earth who offer gifts to God. They do this in the way that Moses' Law tells them." 
Hebrews8:5 But the way that those Levite priests work is only like a picture of the true things in heaven. It is like a shadow of what would happen in heaven. Long ago, when Moses was ready to make the tabernacle, God warned him about it. God said to Moses, ‘Be careful to make everything just like the plan which I showed you on the mountain.’" 
Hebrews8:6 But now God has given Jesus a much better way to serve him as a priest. The new covenant that God makes with his people is possible because of Jesus. Because of Jesus' work on our behalf, the new covenant is better than the old one. It is much better because it started with better promises." 
Hebrews8:7 If there had been nothing wrong with that first covenant, nobody would have needed a second covenant." 
Hebrews8:8 But God did find something wrong with it. As a result, he said this to his people: ‘Listen to this! The Lord God says: A time will come when I make a new covenant with my people, with Israel's people and with Judah's people." 
Hebrews8:9 It will not be like the old covenant that I made with their ancestors. At that time, I brought my people safely out of Egypt. I led them like a father who takes his child's hand. But they did not continue to obey my covenant with them. So I turned away from them. That is what the Lord says." 
Hebrews8:10 But now the Lord says this: After the time of that old covenant I will make a new covenant with Israel's people. It will be like this: I will put my laws into their thoughts. I will write my laws deep inside them. I will be their God and they will be my people. 
Hebrews8:11 Then nobody will have to teach their friends or their family about me. They will never need to say, “You should know the Lord.” This is because everyone will already know me. The most important people will know me, as well as the least important people." 
Hebrews8:12 I will be kind to them. I will forgive them for the wicked things that they have done. I will not continue to think about their sins. That is what the Lord says.’ 
Hebrews8:13 We see that God was speaking about a new covenant. That shows that he has caused the first covenant to become old. And anything that is becoming old like that will soon disappear. 
Hebrews9:1 The first covenant included rules about how people should worship God. It also spoke about a special place for people to worship God on this earth. 
Hebrews9:2 Israel's people made a special tent for God. The first room in that tent was called the holy place. The special lampstand was in this room. The special table with the bread which they offered to God was there too. 
Hebrews9:3 Behind a second curtain, there was a very special room. It was called the Most Holy Place." 
Hebrews9:4 The gold altar for incense was in there. The Covenant Box was there too. The box had gold on all its sides. Inside the box was the gold pot that contained the special food called manna. The box also contained Aaron's stick that had grown leaves. It also contained the two flat stones on which God had written the rules of his covenant with his people. 
Hebrews9:5 The shapes of two special angels stood on the top of the box. They were made from gold and they showed that God was there with great power. The angels held out their wings over the lid of the box. That lid was the place where God forgave the people's sins. But we cannot explain everything about these things now. 
Hebrews9:6 So that was how they prepared the special tent. Then the priests would go into the first room of the tent every day. They went in there to serve God, as his rules taught." 
Hebrews9:7 But only the leader of the priests could go into the second room. He went in there only once every year. He had to take with him blood from an animal that they had killed. He offered the blood to God on his own behalf, so that God would forgive his sins. He also offered it on behalf of the people. Then God would forgive their mistakes too." 
Hebrews9:8 In this way, God's Holy Spirit was showing that the most holy place was not yet open to everyone. While the tent with its first room was still there, those were the rules for people to worship God." 
Hebrews9:9 This is like a picture that means something for us today. It teaches us about the gifts and sacrifices that people offered to God, to worship him. When someone gave those things to God, it could not make him clean again in his mind." 
Hebrews9:10 The old rules taught people about different kinds of food and drink. They taught about how people should wash in special ways. Those rules were about people's bodies. They had authority only until the time when God would make things new and better. 
Hebrews9:11 But now Christ has come as our great priest. He brings us the good things that are now here. He has gone into God's own place in heaven. That is a greater and much better tent than the old tabernacle. No person made this tent. It does not belong to this world at all. 
Hebrews9:12 Christ went into the Most Holy Place on our behalf. He did this once, for all time. He did not take with him the blood of goats or young cows when he went in there. Instead, he took the blood of his own death to offer to God. In that way, he made us free from sin for ever." 
Hebrews9:13 The old rules said that the priest must use the blood of goats or bulls to make people clean. Or he could burn a young cow and mix the ashes with water. He would then splash the blood or the ashes over the people who were unclean. Then those people became clean again in their bodies, and they could worship God." 
Hebrews9:14 But the blood of Christ's sacrifice will do much more than that! Christ offered himself to God, in the power of his Spirit, who lives for ever. That sacrifice was completely good. There was no wrong thing in Christ. He offered his own blood to make us completely clean inside ourselves. We no longer have to do things that lead to death. Instead, we can serve the God who lives for ever." 
Hebrews9:15 So, by Christ's death, God brings a new covenant between him and his people. God's people receive from him the good things that will be with them for ever. God has promised to give those things to the people that he has chosen. Christ's death has made them free from their sins. God will no longer punish them like the first covenant says should happen." 
Hebrews9:16 Think about this. A person may make an agreement about who will receive his things after his death. But nobody receives anything until it is clear that the person has really died. 
Hebrews9:17 The agreement only has authority after the death of the person who made it. It has no authority while that person is still alive. 
Hebrews9:18 So even God's first covenant with his people needed the blood of an animal. The covenant only had authority after a death. 
Hebrews9:19 It was like this. Moses read God's laws aloud to all the Israelite people. He told them every rule that God had given them. After that, Moses killed some young cows and goats. He took some of their blood and he mixed it with water. He used red wool and some small branches of hyssop to splash the blood and water. He splashed some of the blood onto the book of God's laws. He also splashed some blood onto all the people." 
Hebrews9:20 When Moses did this, he said to the people, ‘This blood shows that God's covenant with you has authority.’" 
Hebrews9:21 In the same way, Moses threw some of the blood onto the tabernacle. He also splashed blood onto all the things that the priests used to serve God there." 
Hebrews9:22 God's Law taught that blood was necessary to make almost everything clean. We see that God does not forgive people for their sins unless there is blood from a death. 
Hebrews9:23 The tabernacle and the things that were in it needed animals' blood to make them clean. That was a picture of the true place in heaven where people worship God. But the true things in heaven need better sacrifices to make them clean than the sacrifices of animals. 
Hebrews9:24 Christ did not go into a holy place that people had made on earth. A place like that is only a picture of the true place in heaven. No, Christ went into heaven itself, where God is. Now he is there with God and he speaks to God on our behalf." 
Hebrews9:25 The leader of the priests here on earth goes into the Most Holy Place every year. Each time, he takes with him the blood of an animal and he offers it to God. But when Christ went into heaven to offer himself to God, he did not do that again and again." 
Hebrews9:26 To do that, he would need to die again and again, many times since the world began. No! Christ has appeared just once. He has appeared now, when time is near its end. He came and he died as a sacrifice. In that way, he has removed the power of sin." 
Hebrews9:27 Every person must die once. After death, God will judge each person." 
Hebrews9:28 Christ also died only once as a sacrifice. In this way, he took God's punishment for the sins of many people. Christ will return to earth a second time, but that will not be as a sacrifice for sins. Instead, he will come to save those people who are waiting for him with great hope." 
Hebrews10:1 The laws which God gave to Moses are like a shadow of the good things that would come later. But those laws do not show exactly what those good things are like. They say that the priests must continue to offer the same sacrifices on behalf of the people, year after year. So those sacrifices can never make the people completely clean when they come to worship God." 
Hebrews10:2 If the old rules could do that, the priests would have stopped offering sacrifices. The people who came to worship God would have become completely clean once, for all time. They would no longer have trouble in their minds about their sins." 
Hebrews10:3 But as it is, those sacrifices every year cause people to remember their sins." 
Hebrews10:4 We know that the blood of bulls and of goats cannot remove the punishment for sins. 
Hebrews10:5 So, when Christ came into the world, he said to his Father, ‘You have not wanted people to offer sacrifices and other gifts to you. Instead, you have prepared a body for me to offer to you." 
Hebrews10:6 Sacrifices do not make you happy. If people burn whole animals as a sacrifice, or if they offer a sacrifice to make them clean from their sins, that does not make you happy." 
Hebrews10:7 Then I said, “Here I am, my God. I have come to do what you want. That is what it says about me in the Bible.” ’" 
Hebrews10:8 So think about what Christ said there. First he said to God, ‘You have not wanted gifts and sacrifices of animals. Any kind of sacrifice like that does not make you happy.’ But we know that Moses' rules taught about those sacrifices. God's law said that they were necessary." 
Hebrews10:9 Then Christ said, ‘Here I am. I have come to do what you want.’ In that way, Christ took away the first covenant and its rules about sacrifices. Christ's sacrifice of his own body is the new way that God forgives our sins." 
Hebrews10:10 Jesus Christ was ready to do what God wanted. He offered his own body to God once, for all time. Because of Christ's sacrifice, God has made us clean so that we belong to him." 
Hebrews10:11 Every day, the priests do their work to serve God. They offer the same sacrifices to God again and again. But those sacrifices can never take away people's sins." 
Hebrews10:12 But Christ, our special priest, offered one sacrifice to take away our sins. He did that once, for all time. After that, he sat down at God's right side to rule with him." 
Hebrews10:13 Since then, he waits for God to win against his enemies completely. They will become like a place for him to put his feet." 
Hebrews10:14 So, as a result of his one sacrifice, Christ has made God's people completely clean for all time." 
Hebrews10:15 God's Holy Spirit also shows us that these things are true. He says this first: 
Hebrews10:16 ‘The Lord God says: After the time of the old covenant, I will make a new covenant with my people. It will be like this: I will put my laws deep inside them. I will put them into their thoughts.’" 
Hebrews10:17 Then he says this: ‘I will not continue to think about their sins. I will forgive them when they do not obey my laws.’ 
Hebrews10:18 So that is the way that God forgives our sins. When God has done that, we do not need to have any other sacrifice to take away our sins." 
Hebrews10:19 So then, Christian friends, we see that Jesus died as a sacrifice on our behalf. Because of that, we may go into God's Most Holy Place. We are not afraid to do that." 
Hebrews10:20 Jesus has opened a new way for us to come near to God. That way gives us life with God. It leads us through the curtain into God's Most Holy Place. Jesus opened that curtain for us when he offered his own body to God as a sacrifice. 
Hebrews10:21 We have a great priest who rules the people of God's house. 
Hebrews10:22 So we should come near to God and we should not be afraid. But we must be honest and we must continue to trust him. He has made us clean from the dirt of our sins. Our thoughts no longer give us trouble about our sins. It is like he has washed our bodies with clean water. 
Hebrews10:23 We know that we can trust God to do the things that he has promised. That is what we tell people. So we must continue to hope for those things. We should not stop doing that. 
Hebrews10:24 We should think about how we can help one another. We want everyone to show love to each other. We want everyone to do good things to help one another. 
Hebrews10:25 Some people have stopped meeting with the group of Christians. But that is not good. We should all continue to meet together. We need to help one another to be strong and brave. That is now even more important, because the Lord's great day is coming. You know that the Lord will return soon." 
Hebrews10:26 Now that we have learned what is true about Jesus, we must turn away from sin. If we still choose to do wrong things, there is no other sacrifice that will take away our sins." 
Hebrews10:27 We should then be very afraid because we know that God will judge us. He will punish everyone who is against him. That punishment will be a hot fire of God's anger that destroys people. 
Hebrews10:28 In the old covenant, if anyone refused to obey the laws that God gave to Moses, he had to die. If two or three people said that he had done this, he had to die as punishment. They would not forgive him." 
Hebrews10:29 So think about a person who has turned against the Son of God. That person's punishment will surely be much worse! He says that Christ's sacrifice has no value for him. He has made God's new covenant seem like something bad. It was Christ's death on the cross that made that person clean, so that he would belong to God. But now that person has insulted God's Spirit, who brings God's kind help to us." 
Hebrews10:30 We know God and his message. And God said this: ‘I am the one who will punish people for their sins. I will punish them as they deserve.’ God also said this: ‘The Lord will judge his people.’ 
Hebrews10:31 Yes, if God takes hold of you to punish you, that will make you very afraid! He is the powerful God who lives for ever." 
Hebrews10:32 Remember what happened to you in those early days. When you first understood the message about Christ, you had many troubles. But you continued to be strong." 
Hebrews10:33 Sometimes people insulted you. They caused you to suffer very much. Sometimes you chose to help other Christians who suffered like that. Their troubles became your troubles. 
Hebrews10:34 You were kind to Christians who were in prison. When people took away your own things, you still chose to be happy. You knew that you had something better that would belong to you for ever." 
Hebrews10:35 So continue to be strong in your thoughts. If you continue to trust God, you will receive great things." 
Hebrews10:36 You need to be patient and strong. Then you will continue to do what God wants. As a result, you will receive what God has promised." 
Hebrews10:37 This is what the Bible says: ‘In a very short time, my special servant will come. He is the one that I promised to send to you. He will not be late." 
Hebrews10:38 The righteous person will live because he trusts me. But if anyone is afraid and he turns back, I will not be pleased with that person.’" 
Hebrews10:39 But we are not like those people who are afraid and who turn back. If we were, God would destroy us. But we are people who continue to trust God. And so, our lives are safe with God." 
Hebrews11:1 This is what it means to trust God: We will be sure about the things that we hope for. We will be sure in our minds about things that we cannot even see. 
Hebrews11:2 It was because of the faith of our ancestors that God said good things about them. 
Hebrews11:3 Because of faith, we understand about how God made the universe. He spoke his word to make it happen. In that way, God made all the things that we can see. He made them from things that nobody can see." 
Hebrews11:4 Abel believed God. So he offered a better sacrifice to God than Cain did. And because of Abel's faith, God accepted him as a righteous man. God said that he was pleased with Abel's gifts. Because Abel trusted God, we can still learn from his faith. Abel died long ago, but it is like he is still speaking to us." 
Hebrews11:5 Enoch also believed God. Because of Enoch's faith, God took him away to heaven. He did not die like other people. As a result, nobody could ever find him, because God had taken him away. Before God took him away, it was clear that Enoch had made God happy." 
Hebrews11:6 Unless we trust God, it is impossible for us to make God happy. Anyone who comes to God must believe that God is there. They must also believe that God helps everyone who wants to know him." 
Hebrews11:7 Noah believed God too. God told Noah about bad things that would happen. Nobody could see what would happen, but Noah believed God's message. He was careful to do exactly what God told him. He built a large ship to save his family. As a result of his faith, Noah showed that everyone else in the world was wrong. Noah himself became one of those people that God accepted as righteous. They are right with God because they trust him." 
Hebrews11:8 Abraham also believed God. When God told him to leave his home, he obeyed God. He left his home to go to another country, but he did not know where he was going. It was the place that God had promised to give to Abraham." 
Hebrews11:9 Because of his faith, Abraham went to live like a stranger in that foreign country. God had promised to give that country to him, but Abraham lived there in tents. Isaac and Jacob also lived there in tents like strangers. God had also promised them that the land would belong to them one day." 
Hebrews11:10 We see that Abraham was waiting to live in God's special place. That is the city that God himself has built. God has made it very strong so that it will be there for ever. 
Hebrews11:11 Abraham and his wife, Sarah, were too old to have children. But Abraham believed God's promise that they would have children. He trusted God to do what he had promised. As a result of his faith, God made it possible for him and Sarah to have a baby." 
Hebrews11:12 Abraham was so old that he was almost like a dead man. But from this one man there came very many descendants. There were so many that nobody could count them. They were like the number of stars in the sky. They were as many as the bits of sand on the shore of the sea. 
Hebrews11:13 All these people continued to believe God until they died. But they did not receive all the things that God had promised to give them. They were like people who saw those things far away. They were happy to see them. These people understood that they lived as strangers and travellers on the earth. 
Hebrews11:14 People who live in that way show that they are looking for another place as their home. 
Hebrews11:15 They were not thinking about the country that they had left. They could have gone back there if they had really wanted to. 
Hebrews11:16 No, they wanted very much to go to a better place, in heaven. For that reason, God is not ashamed for them to call him their God. He has already prepared a city for them to live in." 
Hebrews11:17 Here is another example of Abraham's faith. God wanted to see whether Abraham really trusted him. Because Abraham believed God, he offered his son, Isaac, as a sacrifice. God had promised Abraham that he would have many descendants. But Abraham was still ready to offer his only son as a sacrifice." 
Hebrews11:18 God had said to Abraham, ‘It is through Isaac that your family will continue.’" 
Hebrews11:19 But Abraham was sure that, if Isaac died, God could raise Isaac to life again. We could even say that is a picture of what really happened. It was like Abraham did receive Isaac back from death." 
Hebrews11:20 Isaac himself also believed God. As a result of his faith, he asked God to bless his sons, Jacob and Esau. He trusted that God would help them in the future." 
Hebrews11:21 Jacob believed God. As a result of his faith, he asked God to bless each of Joseph's sons. Jacob did that when he was dying. At that time, he used his stick to hold himself up while he worshipped God." 
Hebrews11:22 Joseph also believed God. At the end of his life, he spoke about what would happen to the Israelites after his death. He understood that they would leave Egypt one day. As a result of his faith, he told his family where they should bury his bones." 
Hebrews11:23 Moses' parents believed God. When Moses was born, they hid him for three months. They saw that he was a very special child. As a result of their faith, they did not obey Egypt's king. They were not afraid to do that." 
Hebrews11:24 Moses himself also believed God. When he became a man, he refused to be called the son of the king's daughter." 
Hebrews11:25 Instead, Moses chose to join with God's people. He chose to suffer together with them. He did not want to live in the king's house and do wrong things. He would only be happy for a short time there." 
Hebrews11:26 Moses could have been very rich in Egypt. But instead, he let people insult him. He chose to suffer on behalf of God's Messiah. He thought that was worth more than if he had a lot of money. He thought carefully about what God would give him at a future time." 
Hebrews11:27 As a result of his faith, Moses left Egypt. He knew that the king would be angry, but Moses was not afraid of him. Instead, he continued to trust God. Nobody can see God, but Moses lived as if he could see God." 
Hebrews11:28 As a result of his faith, Moses told Israel's people to prepare the first Passover meal. He told them to put blood from the sacrifice round their doors. Then the angel who destroyed each family's oldest sons came to every home in Egypt. When he saw the blood, he did not kill anyone in the families of Israel's people." 
Hebrews11:29 Because of their faith, Israel's people walked across the Red Sea. They walked through there as if they were walking on dry land. But when the soldiers from Egypt tried to go across the same place, they drowned." 
Hebrews11:30 Because of their faith, Israel's people marched around Jericho city for seven days. Then the city's walls fell down." 
Hebrews11:31 Rahab, who had been a prostitute in Jericho, also trusted God. She helped the men from Israel who had secretly come to the city earlier. Rahab welcomed them into her home. As a result of her faith, she did not die with all the other people in Jericho who did not obey God." 
Hebrews11:32 I could say even more about other people who trusted God. But there is not enough time to talk about all of them. I could tell you about Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel and all the prophets." 
Hebrews11:33 As a result of their faith, they did great things. Some of them won wars against other countries. Others ruled in a way that is right and fair. They received the good things that God had promised. Some of them caused lions to shut their mouths." 
Hebrews11:34 Some of them put out fires that were burning very strongly. Some of them got away from people who wanted to kill them with a sword. Other people who were weak became strong. They became powerful to fight wars. They won against foreign armies so that those armies ran away. 
Hebrews11:35 Some women who trusted God received their friends and family back from death. God raised those people who had died to become alive again. Other people refused to turn against God so that their enemies would not hurt them. As a result, their enemies killed them. These people agreed to die because they were sure that they would live again with God. They knew that would be better for them." 
Hebrews11:36 Other people who trusted God suffered in different ways. People insulted them, or they hit them with whips. Enemies of God tied these people up and they put them in prison." 
Hebrews11:37 People killed some of them with stones. Some of them died when people cut them into two pieces. Some of them died when people killed them with swords. Some of these people wore the skins of sheep and goats while they travelled about. They were very poor and they had a lot of trouble. People were cruel to them. 
Hebrews11:38 These people who trusted God were too good for this world. Some of them had to travel in deserts and on mountains. Some had to live in holes in the rocks and in the ground. 
Hebrews11:39 God gave honour to all these people because they trusted him. But they still did not receive everything that God had promised to give to them. 
Hebrews11:40 God had already decided to prepare something better for all of us. As a result, those people did not receive everything until we could join with them." 
Hebrews12:1 So we have learned about many people who trusted God. They are like a very big crowd all around us to show us what is right. We must be like people who run in a race. We must throw away everything that stops us from running well. The sins that we do make us fall down very easily. We must not let those sins rule us. We must continue to be strong as we run the race that God has prepared for us. 
Hebrews12:2 As we run, we must always look towards Jesus. He is the one who trusted God completely. Our faith starts with him, and he will help us to trust God all the way to the end. Jesus accepted punishment on the cross. He chose to receive much pain. He did not think about being ashamed to die like that. He knew that God had prepared something very good for him that would make him happy. Now he has sat down at the right side of God to rule with him in heaven." 
Hebrews12:3 So think carefully about how Jesus lived on earth. Bad people did very bad things against him, but he continued to be strong. Think about him, and then you will not become weak as Christians. You will not stop trusting God." 
Hebrews12:4 You have been fighting against sin in your lives. But you have not yet had to fight like that until someone killed you. 
Hebrews12:5 God speaks to you as his children. Do not ever forget these words in the Bible that will make you strong: ‘My son, when the Lord shows you what is right, do not easily forget it. Do not be upset when he punishes you." 
Hebrews12:6 The Lord does that to everyone that he loves. He punishes everyone that he accepts as a son.’ 
Hebrews12:7 When you suffer in your life, you must be patient and strong. Remember that God is teaching you what is right because you are his children. There has never been any son whose father did not punish him." 
Hebrews12:8 God teaches all his children not to do wrong things. So if he does not punish you, it shows that you are not really his children. Instead, you are like children who do not really belong to him." 
Hebrews12:9 Also, we have all had human fathers who punished us. As a result, we respected them. So think about our Father that our spirits belong to. We must surely obey him, and then he will give us true life." 
Hebrews12:10 Our human fathers punished us for a few years. They did this in a way that they thought was good. But God punishes us in a way that will really help us. As a result, we can become completely good, like he is." 
Hebrews12:11 Punishment never makes us happy at the time when we receive it. No, the pain makes us sad. But later we know that the punishment has taught us good things. It helps us to live in a right way that gives us peace in our minds." 
Hebrews12:12 So be strong as you serve God! If your hands feel weak, lift them up! If your knees are not strong, stand up straight!" 
Hebrews12:13 Walk straight in front of you, step by step! Your example will help other Christians to serve God well. People who cannot walk well will not fall down. Instead, their legs will become strong again." 
Hebrews12:14 Do everything that you can to live in peace with all people. Be faithful to the Lord. Nobody will see the Lord unless they are holy. 
Hebrews12:15 Remember that God is very kind. Nobody should refuse to let God help them. Make sure that nobody among you causes trouble so that people turn against God. A person who is angry against God is like poison. He spoils many other people's lives so that God does not accept them. 
Hebrews12:16 Make sure that nobody among you has sex in a wrong way. Be careful that nobody is careless about God's rules, like Esau was long ago. He gave away everything that he would have received as his father's firstborn son. He gave it all away so that he could get only one meal." 
Hebrews12:17 As you know, after that, he still wanted to receive those good things from his father. He wanted his father to bless him. But his father refused to do that. Esau cried very much when he asked his father to bless him. But Esau could not change what he had done." 
Hebrews12:18 You have come near to God. But you have not come to a place that you can touch, like Mount Sinai. That mountain burned with fire. But where the people stood, it was completely dark. They could not see at all. There was also a very strong wind and a storm." 
Hebrews12:19 There was the loud sound of a trumpet. There was a powerful voice that spoke to them. When the people heard that voice, they were very afraid. So they asked that the voice would not speak to them any more." 
Hebrews12:20 They were very afraid of what God had told them. God had said, ‘If even an animal touches the mountain, you must kill it with stones.’" 
Hebrews12:21 Even Moses was very afraid when he saw God's great power. He said, ‘I am full of fear!’" 
Hebrews12:22 But as believers in Christ, you have not come to God in that way. You have come to Mount Zion. You have come to the city of the true God who lives. You have come to the city of Jerusalem that is in heaven. There are many thousands of happy angels all together in that place." 
Hebrews12:23 All God's people meet together there. They are like his most important sons. They belong in heaven because God has written down their names. You have come to God himself, who will judge all people. You have come to the place where the spirits of God's people are. Those people have become right with God. God has now finished his work in them." 
Hebrews12:24 Yes, you have come to Jesus! He is the one who brought the new covenant from God to his people. In that covenant, the blood of Jesus' death makes us clean from our sins. It tells us that God has forgiven us. When Cain killed his brother Abel, Abel's blood brought God's punishment. So we see that Jesus' blood has brought us something much better than that." 
Hebrews12:25 So be careful! Always be ready to listen when God speaks. God used Moses as his servant on the earth to speak to Israel's people. When they refused to obey, God punished them. They could not get away. As for us, God speaks to us from heaven. So we will certainly not get away from God's punishment if we turn away from him." 
Hebrews12:26 At Mount Sinai many years ago, God's voice caused the earth to shake. But now God has promised this: ‘Once again I will cause the earth to shake. But this time I will also cause heaven to shake.’" 
Hebrews12:27 These words, ‘once again,’ show us that God will remove the things that he has made. All things on the earth that he causes to shake will finish. After that, only the things that nobody can shake will continue to be there." 
Hebrews12:28 We are receiving a place where we will rule with God. We belong to God's kingdom, and nobody can ever shake that! So we should thank God. We should worship him in a way that makes him happy. He is great, and we should serve him well and respect him." 
Hebrews12:29 Remember that our God is like a fire. He destroys everything that is not good. 
Hebrews13:1 Continue to love each other like brothers and sisters. 
Hebrews13:2 Always remember to be kind to strangers. Let them stay in your homes. In this way, some people have received angels as visitors, and they did not know that they were angels." 
Hebrews13:3 Remember to help those believers who are in prison. Think about what that would be like, if you were there with them. Remember those believers who are receiving trouble from cruel people. Think about them as if you were receiving the same pain in your own body." 
Hebrews13:4 When a man and a woman have married each other, they must each respect the marriage. Husbands and wives must only have sex with each other. God will punish anyone who has sex with another person's husband or wife. He will punish anyone who has sex in a wrong way." 
Hebrews13:5 In the way that you live, do not want lots of money. Be happy with the things that you have. Be happy, because God has said this: ‘I will never leave you; I will always be there with you.’" 
Hebrews13:6 Because of that, we can bravely say this: ‘The Lord is the one who helps me, so I will not be afraid. I will not be afraid of anything that people can do to me.’" 
Hebrews13:7 Remember your leaders, who taught God's message to you. Think about the way in which they have lived and the good things that they have done. They have trusted God, so you should have faith like they have." 
Hebrews13:8 Jesus Christ is always the same, yesterday, today and for ever." 
Hebrews13:9 Some people teach all kinds of strange new things. Do not let them lead you away from God's true message. It is good that God is very kind to us. That is what makes us strong inside ourselves. Rules about what foods we should eat do not make us strong like that. Those rules have never helped the people who tried to obey them. 
Hebrews13:10 Jesus Christ is the sacrifice that saves us. Jewish priests do not have the authority to receive anything from his sacrifice. 
Hebrews13:11 In the old covenant, the leader of the priests brings the blood from the animal sacrifices into the Most Holy Place. He does that so that God will forgive the sins of the people. But they take the bodies of those animals away from there. They burn them outside the town." 
Hebrews13:12 In the same way, Jesus also died outside the city. He died as a sacrifice on our behalf. His blood has made his people clean from their sins." 
Hebrews13:13 Jesus died like that in a place where people insulted him. So we must go out to that place too. We must be ready for people to insult us, as they insulted him." 
Hebrews13:14 Here on earth, we who are believers do not have a city that will always be our home. But we are waiting for God's city that will come." 
Hebrews13:15 So we should always praise God, because of what Jesus has done for us. We should say clearly that we trust Jesus. That is like our sacrifice which we offer to God all the time." 
Hebrews13:16 Remember to be kind to other people. Share with them the things that you have. God is happy with sacrifices like that. 
Hebrews13:17 Respect your leaders and obey them. They watch over your lives on God's behalf. God will check to see if they have done their work well. So respect them, and then they will be happy as they serve God. Do not say bad things against them, because that will never help you." 
Hebrews13:18 Pray to God for us. We are sure in our minds that we have done nothing wrong. We always want to do only what is right. 
Hebrews13:19 The most important thing is this: Pray that I may come back to you soon. 
Hebrews13:20 I pray that God will help you. He is the one who gives us peace in our minds. He caused our Lord Jesus Christ to become alive again after death. God forgives us because of the blood of Jesus' death on the cross. That is God's new covenant with his people that will be true for ever. Jesus is our great shepherd. He takes care of us like his sheep. 
Hebrews13:21 I pray that God will give you every good thing that you need to serve him. Then you can do everything that he wants. I pray that God will help us to serve him in a way that will make him happy. He will do that because we belong to Jesus Christ. Jesus is very great, and we should praise him always and for ever! Amen." 
Hebrews13:22 My Christian friends, please listen patiently to my message. This is only a short letter and I want to help you to be strong." 
Hebrews13:23 I want to tell you about Timothy, who is like a brother to us. They have let him go out of prison, so that he is free now. If he arrives here soon, he will come with me when I travel to see you." 
Hebrews13:24 Say ‘hello’ on my behalf to your leaders and to all God's people. The Christians who have come here from Italy say ‘hello’ to you too. 
Hebrews13:25 I pray that God will be very kind to all of you. 
James1:1 This letter is from me, James. I am a servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ. I am writing to the 12 tribes of God's people who live in many different parts of the world. I say ‘hello’ to all of you." 
James1:2 My Christian friends, remember to be happy, even when many kinds of trouble happen to you. Troubles can help you." 
James1:3 God wants to see if you really trust him. Your faith in God will become stronger as a result of these troubles. 
James1:4 So you should continue to trust God all the time. Then you will become stronger as a believer. You will become completely how you should be. You will not need anything more. 
James1:5 But maybe you need to know how to be wise. Then ask God to help you. He is ready to give everyone what they need. And he never says that it is wrong to ask. So God will help you to be wise. 
James1:6 But when you ask God for something, you must trust him completely. Do not have other ideas in your mind. People who are not sure that God will help them are like the waves in the sea. The wind blows the water one way and then it blows the water another way." 
James1:7 A person who is like that never knows what to do. He has many ideas in his mind. He should not think that he will receive anything from the Lord. 
James1:8  
James1:9 The believers in your group who are poor should be happy. Why? Because God says that they are valuable to him. 
James1:10 And the believers who are rich should also be happy. Why? Because God has shown them that they are not so great. Rich people should remember that they will die, like a wild flower quickly dies." 
James1:11 When the sun rises, its heat causes plants to become dry. Their flowers fall to the ground. They are no longer beautiful. In the same way, rich people will die when they are busy in their work. Then they will have nothing." 
James1:12 Some people continue to trust God even when troubles happen. God will bless those people, if they show that they really trust him. He will give them the gift which is life with him. He has promised to give this gift to all people who love him." 
James1:13 When troubles happen to you, you may want to do something bad. But do not say, ‘God is causing me to do wrong things.’ Nothing can make God do anything bad. And God does not try to make anyone do a wrong thing." 
James1:14 It is our own thoughts that make us do bad things. When we want to do something wrong, our thoughts lead us in a bad way." 
James1:15 We may agree to do what our bad thoughts tell us to do. When we do that, it becomes a sin. Then, we may not stop doing those bad things. If we continue to live like that, the result of our sins is death." 
James1:16 My Christian friends, do not make a mistake." 
James1:17 Remember that every good gift comes to us from God. He only does what will help us. He is our Father in heaven. He made everything in the sky that gives us light. Those things do not give us the same light all the time. They change, but God does not change." 
James1:18 He chose to make us his children. He used his true message to do that. Because of that, we are like the first special gift that belongs to him from among everything that he has made." 
James1:19 Understand this, my Christian friends: We must all be careful to listen. We should not be too quick to speak. We should not get angry quickly." 
James1:20 God wants us to do what is right. But when someone is angry, they do not do those right things." 
James1:21 So stop doing disgusting things. Stay away from the wicked things that are all around you. God has put his message deep inside you, and it can save you. So be humble and accept it as a true message." 
James1:22 But be careful to do what God says in his message. Do not only listen to it. Do not make that mistake! 
James1:23 You must obey God's message. Do not be like a man who quickly looks at his face in a mirror. 
James1:24 That man looks at himself, but then he goes away. He immediately forgets what he is really like." 
James1:25 So do not just listen to God's message and then forget it. It is a completely good message that makes people free. Look at it carefully and keep it in your mind. Do what it tells you to do. God will bless anyone who lives in that way. 
James1:26 Maybe some of you think that you are serving God well. But if you also say bad things about people, you do not serve God well at all. You are doing something bad even when you think you are doing good things." 
James1:27 If you want to serve God in a completely good way, do things like this: Help children who have no parents and women who are widows. Help them in their troubles. If you serve God our Father like that, he will be pleased with you. Do not let the bad people in this world make you bad too." 
James2:1 My Christian friends, you must be kind to everyone. You trust the Lord Jesus Christ, who is great in heaven. So do not think that anyone is more valuable than any other person." 
James2:2 When you are meeting together as believers, maybe two men will come to join with you. One of them is wearing beautiful clothes, and he has gold rings on his hands. The other man is poor, and he is wearing old clothes that are dirty." 
James2:3 You are kind to the man who is wearing beautiful clothes. You say to him, ‘Please sit here in this good place.’ But you say to the poor man, ‘Go and stand over there.’ Or you might say to him, ‘Sit on the floor near my feet.’" 
James2:4 If you do that, you are thinking bad thoughts. You have decided that one person among you is better than another person. You must not do that." 
James2:5 My Christian friends, listen to me. God has chosen to bless people who are poor in this world. He has helped them to trust him. So really they are rich. God will give them a place in his kingdom. He has promised to do that for all people who love him." 
James2:6 But you have not been kind to people who are poor. You have caused them to feel ashamed. Who causes you to have troubles? It is the rich people! They are the people who want the judges to punish you. 
James2:7 It is the rich people who say bad things against the good name of Jesus Christ. And you are called Christians because you belong to him. 
James2:8 But the message of God's kingdom is this: ‘Love other people as much as you love yourself.’ That is what the Bible says. If you really do that, you do well." 
James2:9 But if you are kind to some people and you are not kind to others, then you are doing a bad thing. God's Law shows that you are wrong." 
James2:10 Even if you fail to obey only one rule in God's Law, it means that you are guilty. It is the same as if you fail to obey all God's Law." 
James2:11 For example, God has said in his Law, ‘You must not have sex with anyone who is not your husband or your wife.’ But God has also said, ‘Do not kill another person.’ Perhaps you do not have sex in a wrong way like that. But if you then murder someone, God's Law shows that you are still wrong." 
James2:12 Remember that God will judge you one day. When he does that, he will use a law which makes us free. So remember this in everything that you say and in everything that you do." 
James2:13 God will not forgive anyone who has not forgiven other people. But God is kind! He judges us, but even more than that, he forgives us!" 
James2:14 My Christian friends, you say that you believe in God. Then you must show this in the things that you do. If not, your faith will not help you. It will not save you." 
James2:15 For example, maybe a believer does not have enough clothes to wear or enough food to eat." 
James2:16 Then one of you might say to them, ‘Go with God's peace! I pray that you will be warm. I pray that you will eat well.’ But if you do not give them what they need, that does not help them at all." 
James2:17 How we believe in God is also like that. If our faith does not lead us to do good things, then it is not worth anything. It is dead!" 
James2:18 Someone might say, ‘Some people have faith to believe in God. Other people do good things to help people.’ Then I would say, ‘You cannot show me that you believe in God if you do not do good things. I do good things, and that shows that I really believe in God.’" 
James2:19 You believe that there is only one God. That is good! But even the demons believe that! And it makes them very afraid. 
James2:20 You fool! If someone's faith does not lead them to do good things, it is not worth anything. You should know that!" 
James2:21 Think about our ancestor Abraham. He offered his son Isaac on the altar as a gift to God. Because he did that good thing, God accepted him as right with himself." 
James2:22 Abraham believed in God, and he did what God asked him to do. So you can see that both of these were necessary. When he did this good thing, he showed that he believed in God completely." 
James2:23 The Bible tells us what happened. It says, ‘Abraham believed God. As a result, God accepted Abraham as right with him.’ God also called Abraham his friend." 
James2:24 So you see how God accepts someone as right with himself. That person must not only believe in God. He must also do good things to show that he has faith. 
James2:25 It was the same with Rahab, long ago. She was a prostitute. She helped some of God's people who came to her house. She kept them safe from their enemies and she sent them away again by a different road. Because she did those good things, God accepted her as right with himself." 
James2:26 If our bodies have no spirit, they are dead. In the same way, if our faith does not lead us to do good things, it is dead." 
James3:1 My Christian friends, not many of you should become teachers. We people who teach God's message must be very careful. When God judges everybody, he will demand more from us than from other people." 
James3:2 We all make many mistakes. So, if someone never says anything that is bad, that person is completely good. It shows that he has authority over his whole body." 
James3:3 For example, think about how we make a horse go the right way. We put a small piece of metal in its mouth so that we can turn it. Then we can cause the horse's whole body to go where we want it to go." 
James3:4 Also, think about ships that sail on the sea. They are very large. Strong winds push them with great power. But we fix a piece of wood at the back of the ship. With this small piece of wood, the master can cause the ship to go anywhere that he wants it to go." 
James3:5 In the same way, our tongue is a very small part of our body. But it speaks as if it is very great. Think about this. A very small fire can cause even a big forest to burn completely." 
James3:6 A person's tongue is like a fire. It has the power of everything in the world that is wrong. It is a small part of the body but it can spoil the whole person. Like a fire, it can destroy all of a person's life. It is a fire that comes from the fire of hell itself." 
James3:7 Remember this. People can cause all kinds of things to do what they want them to do. They have done this with wild animals, birds, snakes and things that live in the sea." 
James3:8 But no person can rule his tongue. It continues to say bad things. It is like a bad poison that can cause death. 
James3:9 We use our tongue to praise the Lord God who is our Father. But then we use it to curse other people. That is wrong, because God made those people to be like himself." 
James3:10 This shows that we use the same mouth to praise and also to curse. My Christian friends, we should not do this." 
James3:11 Salty water and sweet water never come from the same spring. 
James3:12 A fig tree cannot give olives, my friends. A vine for grapes cannot give figs. And a salty spring cannot give sweet water." 
James3:13 Do some of you think that you are wise? Do you think that you are clever? If so, show that you are wise by the way that you live. Be kind to other people. Do things that are good. That is what it means to be wise." 
James3:14 But if you live in a bad way, do not think that you are wise. Are you jealous of other people so that you hate them? Do you want to make yourself important? If you live like that, do not say that you are great and wise. You are not saying what is true." 
James3:15 You are not being wise in the way that God wants you to be wise. Instead, you are thinking like people who do not know God. Your thoughts do not come from God's Spirit. They come from demons." 
James3:16 If you are jealous of other people and you want to make yourself important, that will cause trouble. People will argue and fight against one another. They will do all kinds of bad things." 
James3:17 But if God makes you really wise, you will live in a completely good way. That is the most important thing. Also, you will live in a way that brings peace. You will be kind to other people so that they become your friends. You will listen to them and not argue. You will forgive them and do many good things to help them. You will not choose between people. And you will not be a hypocrite." 
James3:18 Those who bring peace to other people help them to live together in peace. As a result, people choose to do what is right and good." 
James4:1 You fight and quarrel among yourselves. Do you know why that happens? It is because of the troubles in your thoughts. You want to do bad things that you think will make you happy. 
James4:2 You want to have something for yourself, but you do not get what you want. You even kill other people. You try to take things from other people. But you cannot get what you want. So you fight and you quarrel with each other. But you do not have these things because you do not ask God for them." 
James4:3 Even when you do ask God, you do not receive anything. That is because you ask for the wrong reason. You just want to use these things to make yourselves happy." 
James4:4 You are turning away from God, like a woman who is not faithful to her husband. You choose to be friends with people who are against God. So you yourselves become enemies of God. You should know that!" 
James4:5 The Bible says, ‘God has caused his Spirit to live in us. He wants very much to keep us for himself.’ Do you think that is not true?" 
James4:6 But God will be very kind to us and he will help us. That is why the Bible says, ‘God is against those people who are proud. But he is kind to humble people.’" 
James4:7 So obey God's authority. Be strong against the devil and he will run away from you. 
James4:8 Come near to God and he will come near to you. Be clean in the way that you live. Stop doing wrong things. Make your minds clean. You cannot love sin and love God at the same time. 
James4:9 Be sorry about your sins and weep. Stop laughing and instead be sad. Do not be happy but be very upset. 
James4:10 Be humble in front of the Lord God. Then he will lift you up to a good place. 
James4:11 My Christian friends, do not say bad things against each other. If you speak against another believer, you are really speaking against God's Law. If you judge another believer, then you are judging the Law too. When you do that, you are not obeying the Law. You are giving yourself authority to decide what the Law says." 
James4:12 God is the one who gave his Law to people. Only he has the authority to judge whether people have done what is right. Only he can decide to save people or to destroy them. So you must not judge your friends. You do not have that authority. 
James4:13 Some of you say, ‘Today or tomorrow we will go to a certain city. We will stay there for a year. We will buy and sell things, and we will become rich.’ If you say things like that, listen to me." 
James4:14 You do not know what will happen tomorrow. Your life is like a cloud which appears for a short time and then it quickly goes away. 
James4:15 So what you ought to say is, ‘If the Lord agrees and we are still alive, then we will do this or that.’" 
James4:16 But instead, you talk about what you have decided to do. You speak as if you have the power to make it happen. It is wrong to boast like that." 
James4:17 So you know the right thing that you ought to do. But if you know what is right and you do not do it, that is a sin for you." 
James5:1 Now, listen to me, you rich people. Weep and cry aloud, because many troubles will soon happen to you." 
James5:2 Your money no longer has any value. Insects have eaten your beautiful clothes and they have spoiled them. 
James5:3 You have stored silver and gold coins to spend for yourselves. But dirt has spoiled those coins. That dirt will show that you are guilty. It will become like fire that is burning your bodies. In the last days of this world you have stored all this money for yourselves. 
James5:4 But you have not paid the workers in your fields the money that you should have paid them. You have cheated them. Now they are shouting against you. The Lord of great power has heard them when they cry to him for help. 
James5:5 During your life here on this earth, you have had all that you wanted. You have lived like kings. You have eaten as much food as you want. So now you are like fat animals that are ready for men to kill." 
James5:6 You say that a righteous person is guilty. You have even killed him and he could not stop you. 
James5:7 So, my Christian friends, be patient until the Lord Jesus returns. Think about how a farmer is patient. He waits for the ground to give him valuable food to eat. He waits patiently for the rain to come in the autumn and in the spring." 
James5:8 You also must be patient, because the Lord will return soon. Be strong as you continue to trust him." 
James5:9 My Christian friends, do not complain against each other. If you do, God will punish you. So be careful! He is the Judge and he is ready now to judge people." 
James5:10 Think about how God's prophets were also patient. They spoke messages on behalf of the Lord. Many troubles happened to them but they were patient. So, my Christian friends, you should copy their example." 
James5:11 We know that God blessed people who were like that. They continued to trust God when trouble happened to them. You have heard about Job. He waited patiently for God to help him in his troubles. You know how the Lord helped him in the end. Because of that, we see that the Lord God is very kind and he helps us." 
James5:12 Here is another important thing to remember, my Christian friends. When you want to make a strong promise, never use extra words. Do not say, ‘I promise by heaven,’ or ‘I promise by the earth.’ Do not use any extra words like that. When you say ‘yes,’ that should be enough. When you say ‘no,’ that should also be enough. If you say more than that, God will say that you are guilty." 
James5:13 Is anyone among you in trouble? Then they should pray to God about it. Or, is anyone feeling happy? They should praise God with songs." 
James5:14 Is anyone ill? They should ask the leaders of the church to come and to pray for them. The leaders should put some olive oil on the sick person. They should pray for him with the authority of the Lord Jesus. 
James5:15 If they pray in that way and they trust that God will answer them, the sick person will become well again. The Lord will cause him to become well. And God will forgive him if he has done any wrong things." 
James5:16 So you should tell each other about any wrong things that you have done. Then you will be able to pray for each other, so that God makes you well again. When a good person prays to God, God does powerful things." 
James5:17 For example, God's prophet Elijah was an ordinary person, as we are. He prayed to God that it would not rain. He continued to pray and it did not rain on the land for three years and six months." 
James5:18 After that time, he prayed to God to send rain again. After that, rain came down from the sky. The seeds that were in the ground began to grow and give food for people to eat." 
James5:19 My Christian friends, if anyone among you turns away from God's true message, you should help him. Try to bring him back to God." 
James5:20 Understand this: if you turn a person back from their bad ways, you will save them from death. And God will forgive them for many sins." 
1Peter1:1 This letter is from me, Peter. I am an apostle of Jesus Christ. I am writing to you, God's own people that he has chosen. You are now living in many different places, in the regions called Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia. You are living in these foreign places as strangers." 
1Peter1:2 God the Father already decided that you should be his people. God's Spirit has made you special people who would obey Jesus Christ. God chose you so that Jesus Christ's blood would make you really clean. I pray that God will help you and give you peace in your minds more and more. 
1Peter1:3 We praise God, who is the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! He is very kind to us, so that he has given us new life. This is possible because God raised Jesus Christ to new life after his death. Now, as we live, we are sure that we will receive good things from God." 
1Peter1:4 We wait to receive all the good things that he has prepared for us. Nobody can ever destroy those things. Nothing can spoil them. They will never become old or less beautiful. God is keeping those things in heaven for you. 
1Peter1:5 God is using his great power to keep you safe, because you trust him. He will continue to keep you safe until the last day, when Christ will return. Then you will know that God has saved you completely from sin and from death." 
1Peter1:6 All this causes you to be very happy, even when you have troubles. For a short time now, different kinds of troubles may make you sad." 
1Peter1:7 The purpose of these troubles is to show whether you really trust God. When you believe in Jesus, that is more valuable even than gold. People put gold into a hot fire to see if it is really good. And even gold will come to an end one day. But if you continue to trust God in your troubles, he will be very happy. On the day when Jesus Christ returns and appears to everyone, God will praise you. He will say that you have done well. That will be great!" 
1Peter1:8 You have never seen Jesus, but still you love him. You do not see him now, but you believe in him. As a result, you are very happy. There are no words to describe how happy you are." 
1Peter1:9 You are happy now because God is saving you from sin. You believe in Jesus, and you know that God saves you because of that." 
1Peter1:10 A long time ago, God's prophets spoke about this. They said that God would be very kind to you, his people. They studied carefully to learn how God would save people." 
1Peter1:11 They wanted to know when God's Messiah would come and who he would be. Christ's Spirit showed those prophets that the Messiah would suffer very much. After that, God would show how great the Messiah is." 
1Peter1:12 God showed his prophets that his messages about these things were not really to help them. Instead, God sent his message to the prophets to help you. That message is the good news about Jesus Christ which you have now heard. God sent his Holy Spirit from heaven to help people to tell the good news to you. Even the angels would like to understand more about these things." 
1Peter1:13 So now, prepare your minds, so that you are ready to live in a good way. Think clearly about how God helps you. Always remember that God will be very kind to you when Jesus Christ comes again." 
1Peter1:14 Obey God, like good children who obey their father. Before you knew the true message about Christ, you very much wanted to do bad things. But now you should not agree to live in that bad way." 
1Peter1:15 God has chosen you to be his own people. He is holy. So you must be holy too, in the way that you live." 
1Peter1:16 In the Bible God says this: ‘You must be holy, because I am holy.’" 
1Peter1:17 God knows what each person has done, and he judges each one for those things. He is always fair when he decides about people. He is never kinder to one person than he is to another person. When you pray to God, you call him ‘Father’. So then, always respect him, while you live as strangers here in the world." 
1Peter1:18 Your ancestors lived in a way that did not make them truly happy. That is the way that you learned to live as well. But now God has saved you from that way of life. You know that he has bought you for himself. He did not buy you with things that do not continue for ever, like silver or gold." 
1Peter1:19 Instead, he bought you with the very valuable blood of Christ, who died as a perfect sacrifice for our sins. He died like a lamb that is perfect and has nothing wrong with it." 
1Peter1:20 Before the world began, God had already chosen Christ. But now, during these last days of the world, God has shown Christ to people. God did that so that he could help you." 
1Peter1:21 Yes, it is because of Christ that you now believe in God. God raised Christ, so that he became alive again after his death. He did that to show everyone that Christ is great. That is why you believe in God. You trust him that he will do good things for you." 
1Peter1:22 You have obeyed God's true message. As a result, you have become clean inside, and now you can really love other believers. So continue to love each other very well, with honest thoughts." 
1Peter1:23 You now have a new life! It is not like a human life that quickly comes to an end. It is a new life that will never spoil. You received it because you believed God's message. That message continues for ever and it does not change. 
1Peter1:24 The Bible says: ‘All people are like grass. They may seem beautiful for a short time, like flowers that grow in the fields. But grass soon becomes dry and it dies. Flowers soon fall to the ground." 
1Peter1:25 But the message of the Lord God will continue for ever.’ That message is the good news about Jesus Christ, which people have taught you." 
1Peter2:1 So you must refuse to do any evil things. Do not tell lies to deceive people. Do not be hypocrites. Do not be jealous of other people. Do not say bad things against other people. 
1Peter2:2 Instead, you should want to learn about God more and more. New babies always want their mothers' milk, which makes them grow strong. God's message is like good food that will make you strong in your spirits. Then you will continue to grow as believers so that God saves you." 
1Peter2:3 Do this, because you have already begun to know how kind the Lord is to you." 
1Peter2:4 So come to the Lord Jesus. He is like a strong stone that a builder uses to build a house. But he is alive. People decided that he was not important. So they refused to accept him. But God had chosen him. To God, Jesus is very valuable." 
1Peter2:5 You yourselves are also like stones that are alive. God is using you, like stones, to build a house where his Spirit lives. You will serve him like his special priests who offer sacrifices to him. God will be happy with the spiritual offerings that you give to him, because you belong to Jesus Christ." 
1Peter2:6 In the Bible, God says this: ‘Look, I have chosen a stone that is very valuable. I have chosen this stone as the most important stone, for the corner of my house in Zion. Anyone who believes in him will never become disappointed.’" 
1Peter2:7 This stone is very valuable to you who believe in Jesus. But the Bible says this about people who do not believe in him: ‘The builders refused to use a certain stone. They thought that it had no value. But now that stone has become the most important stone at the corner of the building.’ 
1Peter2:8 The Bible also says this: ‘This stone will cause people to fall to the ground. It is a rock that will make them fall down.’ They fall down like that because they refuse to obey God's message. God already decided that this would happen to them. 
1Peter2:9 But you are not like that. You are a special group of people that God has chosen. You serve God like priests who serve a King. You are his own holy people who belong to him. He has taken you out of the dark place of sin, and he has brought you into his great light. God has done all this so that you can tell people how great he is." 
1Peter2:10 In past times, you were not people who knew God. But now you are God's people. In past times, God did not forgive you. But now he has been very kind to you and he has forgiven you." 
1Peter2:11 My friends, remember that you are really strangers in this world. You do not belong here. So I am telling you not to do the bad things that your bodies may want to do. Those bad things fight against what is good for your soul." 
1Peter2:12 You are living among people who do not know God. So be very careful that you always live in a good way. Sometimes these people may wrongly say that you do bad things. But if you continue to live in a good way, they will see that you really do good things. As a result, on the day when God comes as judge, they will give honour to him." 
1Peter2:13 Obey all people who have authority in this world. Obey them, because you are servants of the Lord Jesus. First of all, obey the king, who rules everyone." 
1Peter2:14 Also obey the officers that serve the king. He has sent them to punish people who do bad things. And they praise people who do good things. 
1Peter2:15 God wants you to do only what is good. Then silly people will not be able to say bad things against you. Those people do not really know what is true. 
1Peter2:16 You are free people. But you are servants of God. So do not think, ‘Because I am free, I can do any bad thing that I want to do.’" 
1Peter2:17 Respect all people. Love the believers as you would love your family. Obey God as your master. Respect the king. 
1Peter2:18 You who are slaves must obey your masters. Always respect them. Do that to every kind of master. Obey those who are good and kind. But also obey masters who are not fair to you. 
1Peter2:19 This makes God happy. Maybe your master will punish you when you have done nothing wrong. If you know that you are serving God, continue to be patient and brave." 
1Peter2:20 But if you do something wrong, then your master ought to punish you. That is only fair. Even if you are brave when he is cruel to you, nobody should praise you for that. But your master may punish you even when you have done good things. Then God will be happy if you are patient and brave." 
1Peter2:21 When God chose you to be his servants, he wanted you to be brave like that. Christ suffered on your behalf. He has shown you how you should live when trouble comes." 
1Peter2:22 The Bible says this: ‘He never did anything that was wrong. He never said anything that was not true.’ 
1Peter2:23 People insulted Christ, but he did not say any bad thing to answer them. People caused him to have trouble, but he never tried to hurt them in return. Instead, Christ trusted God to help him. He knew that God always judges people fairly." 
1Peter2:24 When Christ died on the cross, he carried our sins in his own body. He took this punishment so that sin would no longer rule over us. Instead, we can now do the right things that God wants us to do. Because people hurt Christ's body, you have now become well." 
1Peter2:25 Before, you were like sheep that were going the wrong way. But now you have turned round and come to Christ. He is your Shepherd, and he keeps you completely safe." 
1Peter3:1 I need to speak to you wives. You should each respect the authority of your own husband. Even if your husband does not believe God's message about Jesus Christ, you should still respect him. If you do that, he may then turn to God and believe his message. You will not need to tell him what is true. He will see the good way that you live." 
1Peter3:2 He will see that you obey God and that you do things that are completely good. 
1Peter3:3 Think about what makes you beautiful. The way that you prepare your hair does not really make you beautiful. Gold things or beautiful clothes do not make you beautiful. 
1Peter3:4 Do not only think about your body, but think about what you are really like inside yourself. Be patient and do not become angry easily. Then you will always continue to be beautiful. If you are beautiful in your spirit, God likes that very much." 
1Peter3:5 That was how holy women made themselves beautiful many years ago. They trusted God that he would help them. They respected the authority of their husbands. 
1Peter3:6 Sarah was a woman like that. She obeyed her husband, Abraham. She called him, ‘My master’. So you wives also should do what is right. Do not let anything make you afraid. Then you will be like true daughters of Sarah." 
1Peter3:7 You husbands must also respect your wives. Be kind to your wife and help her. Remember that she is not as strong as you are. Because God is very kind, she has received his gift of true life, as you have. So you should respect her. Then God will answer you when you pray to him." 
1Peter3:8 Now I want to say this to you before I finish my letter. All of you should agree with each other in what you think. You should try to understand how other people are feeling. Love each other as brothers and sisters. Be kind to each other. Do not think that you are more important than other people. 
1Peter3:9 If people do bad things to you, do not do anything bad to them in return. If people insult you, do not insult them in return. Instead, pray that God will bless those people. That is what God wants you to do. Then you will receive the gift of God's blessing." 
1Peter3:10 The Bible says this: ‘Do you want to enjoy your life? Do you want to be happy? Then you must be careful not to say evil things. Do not tell any lies. 
1Peter3:11 Stop doing evil things. Instead, do things that are good. Try to be friends with people. Help people to live in peace with each other." 
1Peter3:12 Remember that the Lord God sees what everyone does. He takes care of people who do what is right. When they pray, he listens to them. But the Lord God turns against people who do evil things.’" 
1Peter3:13 If you always try to do good things, then nobody should hurt you." 
1Peter3:14 But you may suffer, even when you do what is right. If that happens, God will bless you. So do not be afraid of what people may do to you. Do not worry about it." 
1Peter3:15 Instead, always remember that Christ is your Lord. Let him rule how you live. People may ask you, ‘Why do you trust God to help you?’ You must always be ready to answer them about that." 
1Peter3:16 But when you tell them, be kind and polite. Do only what you know is right. Then those people will see that you live in a good way because you believe in Christ. When they say bad things against you they will become ashamed." 
1Peter3:17 God may allow you to suffer even when you have done good things. But that is better than if you suffer because you have done bad things. 
1Peter3:18 Christ himself always did what was right. But he suffered on behalf of people who do what is wrong. He died once to take away all those wrong things. He did that to bring you near to God. People killed Christ's body, but God's Spirit made him alive again." 
1Peter3:19 Like this, Jesus went to the spirits who were in prison. He told them God's true message." 
1Peter3:20 Those were the spirits of people who had refused to obey God long ago. At that time God waited patiently for them to turn to him while Noah was building a large ship. But only a few people agreed to go into that ship. God saved only eight people when the ship sailed on the deep water. 
1Peter3:21 That shows how God now saves you. It is like a picture of baptism. The water of baptism does not wash dirt from a person's body. Instead, it shows that a person has decided to obey God. He is choosing to do what is right. That saves you, because Jesus Christ became alive again after his death." 
1Peter3:22 After that, Jesus went into heaven. Now he is sitting at God's right side. He rules over angels and over everything that has authority and power." 
1Peter4:1 Christ suffered while he lived in his human body. So you should prepare yourselves to suffer too. Think about it in the same way that Christ did. If someone suffers in his body, he has finished with sin." 
1Peter4:2 As a result, that person will want to do what God wants him to do. In his life in this world, he will not want to do the bad things that people think are good." 
1Peter4:3 You have already had enough time in your life to do bad things. Those are the kinds of things that people who do not know God like to do. You did many evil things that your bodies wanted to do. You had sex in a wrong way. You often became drunk. You went to wild parties where you drank too much alcohol. You also worshipped useless idols. 
1Peter4:4 But now you no longer live in the same wicked way as those people do. They continue to enjoy those wrong things all the time. But you do not join with them. So they insult you. 
1Peter4:5 But those people will have to explain to God what they have done. He is ready to judge every person, whether they are alive now or they have already died." 
1Peter4:6 That is why even people who have already died needed to hear the good news about Christ. Their bodies had to die, as all people must die. But they heard the good news so that their spirits could live, as God wants them to live." 
1Peter4:7 All things in this world will soon come to an end. So you must think clearly. Then you will be able to pray in a serious way. 
1Peter4:8 Continue to love each other very much. That is more important than anything else. If you love people, you will forgive them for any wrong things that they have done." 
1Peter4:9 Always be happy to have other believers as visitors in your homes. 
1Peter4:10 God has helped each of you with a certain gift. Think carefully about how to use that gift from God well. Remember that God has given many different gifts to his people so that they can help each other. 
1Peter4:11 Has God helped you to speak well? Then speak God's messages to people. Or has God helped you to serve other people? Then let God make you strong to do that. Do everything so that people will praise God. They will say that God is great, because of Jesus Christ. He is the one who has all authority and power for ever. Everyone should praise him! Amen." 
1Peter4:12 My friends, I know that people are causing you to have bad trouble. It is like a fire that is burning you. Do not be surprised about that. These things are happening to you, to show whether you really trust God. Do not think that something strange is happening to you." 
1Peter4:13 Instead, be happy when you have trouble. Remember that Christ also received much trouble and pain. If you suffer like he did, then you will be happy when he returns. At that time, everyone will see how great Christ really is. Then you will be very happy with a great joy." 
1Peter4:14 People may insult you because you belong to Christ. But God will bless you when that happens. It shows that the Holy Spirit is with you. He is God's great Spirit. 
1Peter4:15 Do not murder anyone. Do not rob anyone. Do not do evil things. Do not try to cause trouble for other people. If you do those things, you deserve to have trouble." 
1Peter4:16 But if you receive trouble because you are a Christian, do not be ashamed about that. Instead, you should praise God that you belong to Christ." 
1Peter4:17 The time has come when God will start to judge people. He will first judge the people who belong to him. If he will start with his own people, what will happen to other people? They have refused to obey God's good news, so it will surely be very bad for them." 
1Peter4:18 The Bible says: ‘When God saves righteous people, that is a difficult thing. It will surely be much worse for people who turn away from God and people who do bad things.’" 
1Peter4:19 So remember this. If you suffer because that is what God wants, you should continue to trust him. God made you and he always does what he has promised. So you should continue to do what is good." 
1Peter5:1 Now I want to say something to you who are leaders of the groups of believers. Like you, I am also a leader. I myself saw how people caused Christ to have great pain so that he died. One day people will see how great he really is. Then I will be among those people who join with him in heaven. So I say this to you who are leaders:" 
1Peter5:2 Watch over the group of believers that God has given to you. Be like a shepherd that takes care of his sheep. Lead them well because you want to do it. Do not do it only because you have to do it. Do it in the way that God wants for you. Do not be a leader because you want to receive money for yourself. Instead, do it because you want to help people." 
1Peter5:3 God has given you a group of believers to take care of them. Do not try to rule over them with power. Instead, show them how to live in a good way, so that they can copy you." 
1Peter5:4 Then our master, Christ, will give you a beautiful crown when he appears. That is a great gift that will never become old or less beautiful. He is the great Shepherd who takes care of us." 
1Peter5:5 I want to say the same thing to you who are young men. You must respect the authority of the leaders. All of you who are believers must respect one another. Do not think that you are more important than other people. The Bible says: ‘God is against proud people. But he is kind to humble people.’ 
1Peter5:6 Remember that God is strong and powerful. So be humble in front of him. Then he will lift you up to a good place at the right time. 
1Peter5:7 If you have any kind of trouble in your mind, give it to God. God has promised to take care of you." 
1Peter5:8 Think seriously about how you live. Watch carefully for danger. Remember that the devil is your enemy. He wants to hurt you. He walks about like a hungry lion. He is looking for someone to kill and then eat! 
1Peter5:9 But you must be strong to fight against him. Trust God completely. Remember this: Believers all over the world are having the same kind of trouble. 
1Peter5:10 Yes, you will have trouble like this for a short time. But after that, God will make everything right. He is completely kind and he will always help you. Because you belong to Christ, God has chosen you to live with him in heaven for ever. You will join him in that beautiful place. Then God will make you well again. He will make you strong in your spirits. You will be able to stand strongly." 
1Peter5:11 Yes, God rules with power for ever! Amen." 
1Peter5:12 Silas has helped me to write this short letter to you. I know that he continues to trust Christ well. I have written to you because I want you to be strong. I have told you how God is kind to us and he helps us. This is God's true message to you. So continue to believe it and be strong. 
1Peter5:13 The believers here in Babylon say ‘hello’ to you. God has chosen them as his people, together with you. Mark, who is like my son, also says ‘hello’ to you." 
1Peter5:13 The believers here in Babylon say ‘hello’ to you. God has chosen them as his people, together with you. Mark, who is like my son, also says ‘hello’ to you." 
1Peter5:14 When you meet, kiss each other as Christian brothers and sisters. I pray for all of you who belong to Christ. I pray that God will give you peace in your minds." 
2Peter1:1 This letter is from me, Simon Peter. I am Jesus Christ's servant and his apostle. I am writing to you people who believe in Jesus Christ, as we do. That is a valuable gift that God has given to us all. He has done this because Jesus is completely good and right. Jesus is the one who saves us. He is the God that we serve." 
2Peter1:2 I pray that God will help you and give you peace in your minds more and more. You will grow as believers because you know God and you know Jesus, our Lord." 
2Peter1:3 God is very powerful because he is God. He has used that power to help us. He has given us everything that we need to live in a good way. We can do things that please God. This is possible because now we know him. God has chosen us to be his people because he is very great and very good. 
2Peter1:4 Because of this, God has promised that he will do very great and valuable things for us. As a result, you can do what is right, like God does. The people who belong to this world want to do bad things. Those bad things make them become worse and worse. But God gives you the power to be free from all that." 
2Peter1:5 God has done all this to help you. So now that you believe in Christ, you must grow as believers. Always try to do what is good. Then you should start to know God more." 
2Peter1:6 Then you should learn to control yourselves properly. That is not all. You should also learn to be patient and brave. And you should live in a way that pleases God. 
2Peter1:7 You should not only please God, but you should be kind to other believers. You should not only love other believers, but you must also love all people." 
2Peter1:8 You should continue to grow as believers in all these ways. Then it will show that you really know our Lord Jesus Christ. People will see that your life has good results. 
2Peter1:9 But some people do not live in these good ways. They do not think that these things are important. They are like blind people. They cannot really see anything properly. They have forgotten that God has made them clean from all the sins that they did in past times. 
2Peter1:10 So, my friends, try very much to live in a way that pleases God. God has chosen you to be his own people. Show that you really do belong to him! If you do these things, you will never turn away from God." 
2Peter1:11 Then God will bring you safely into the kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ that continues for ever. Jesus Christ is our Saviour, and God will be happy to welcome you into his kingdom." 
2Peter1:12 You already know these things. You know that they are completely true. But because they are important, I will continue to tell you about them again and again." 
2Peter1:13 While I am still alive on this earth I will continue to make sure that you remember them. I think that it is right for me to do that. 
2Peter1:14 I know that I will die soon. Our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me that clearly. 
2Peter1:15 After I am no longer with you, I want you still to remember what I have told you. So I will make sure that you have something to help you not to forget." 
2Peter1:16 We told you that our Lord Jesus Christ is powerful. We also told you that he will return to earth again. We were not telling you false stories that came from people's clever ideas. Instead, we were telling you what we ourselves had seen. We ourselves saw that the Lord Jesus is very great." 
2Peter1:17 We were with him on the holy mountain when his Father God spoke to him. God gave honour to his Son, Jesus, and he said that Jesus is great. We ourselves heard God's voice speak to Jesus from heaven above where God rules with power. He said: ‘This is my Son and I love him. He makes me very happy.’" 
2Peter1:18  
2Peter1:19 We also have the prophets' messages from long ago. They show us very clearly that these things are true. The prophets' words are like a light that shines in a dark place. That light continues to shine in the dark until the dawn comes. So you need to think about those messages carefully. Then the morning star will rise at dawn and it will bring light deep inside you. 
2Peter1:20 It is very important that you should understand this: The prophets' messages in the Bible did not come from their own ideas. That never happens. 
2Peter1:21 None of the prophets' messages came because any person wanted to say something. Instead, God's Holy Spirit caused people to speak words that came from God." 
2Peter2:1 Many years ago, there were false prophets among God's people. They did not speak God's true messages. In the same way, there will also be false teachers among you. They will come among you and they will teach you things that are not true. Their wrong ideas will deceive people. Those false teachers will even speak against the Master, who paid the price for their sins. As a result, they will bring trouble on themselves that quickly destroys them." 
2Peter2:2 Many people will believe these false teachers. They will live in a bad way, like the false teachers. As a result, other people will say bad things against God's true way to live." 
2Peter2:3 The false teachers want you to give them money. So they will teach things that are not true. A long time ago, God already decided that he must punish them. God is ready to do that now. Certainly, he will soon destroy them." 
2Peter2:4 God even punished the angels who refused to obey him. He threw them down into the deep hole of hell. He tied them up and he kept them in that completely dark place. They will remain there until the day when God will judge them. 
2Peter2:5 Also, a long time ago, God punished all the bad people who lived in the world. He sent water to cover over all the earth. All the people who had turned away from him drowned in the water. But God kept Noah safe. Noah had told people God's message that they should do right things. So God saved Noah, and seven other people, from the water." 
2Peter2:6 Later, God punished the people who lived in the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Because they did bad things, God decided to destroy them. He burned those cities completely, so that only ashes remained. When God did that, he showed what will happen to all people who refuse to obey him." 
2Peter2:7 But God saved Lot from danger. Lot was a good man. He was very sad because the people in Sodom did not obey God's laws. They lived in a very bad way. 
2Peter2:8 Lot lived among those bad people. Every day, he saw the bad things that they did. Every day, he heard the bad things that they said. As a result, Lot had much trouble in his mind, because he was a good man." 
2Peter2:9 We know that the Lord God has done all these things in past times. When people who respect him have trouble, God knows how to rescue them. But he will continue to punish the people who refuse to obey him. He will keep them until the day when he will judge them." 
2Peter2:10 God will certainly punish those people who want to enjoy bad things for themselves. They do the wrong things that their bodies want to do. They do not want to obey anyone's authority. These false teachers are not afraid of what other people think about them. They think that they themselves are very important. They are not afraid to say many bad things against the great angels in heaven. 
2Peter2:11 The angels are more powerful than the false teachers are. But even these angels will not say bad things against them when the Lord is present. 
2Peter2:12 But these false teachers speak against things that they do not understand. They are like wild animals. Their minds cannot think properly. They only do what their nature causes them to do. Wild animals are born so that people can catch them and kill them. In the same way, God will destroy the false teachers." 
2Peter2:13 They have caused other people to have much trouble. In return, God will cause them to have trouble. They love to do things which will give their bodies pleasure. They have wild parties, even during the day. They eat and drink too much when they eat meals with you. They enjoy all these bad ways to be happy. As a result, people think bad things about you as well. They cause people to be ashamed about you. So they are like dirty marks that spoil something which is clean." 
2Peter2:14 All the time, they are looking for women who will have sex with them. They never stop doing wicked things. They teach people who have weak minds to believe wrong things. They just want more and more things to make themselves happy. God will certainly punish these people, because they are so bad." 
2Peter2:15 These false teachers have left the way which is good and right. Like Balaam, Beor's son, they have gone the wrong way. Balaam wanted money so much that he did wrong things to get it." 
2Peter2:16 But a donkey told him that he was not obeying God. We know that donkeys cannot talk. But that donkey spoke with a human voice. It stopped the prophet Balaam from doing more stupid things. 
2Peter2:17 These false teachers promise good things that will never happen. They are like a dry well that has no water. They are like clouds in a storm which the wind blows away so that no rain comes. God will certainly send them to the darkest place in hell. He has kept that place ready for them. 
2Peter2:18 The messages that these teachers speak seem very important. But their words really mean nothing. In that way, they lead people away from God. Some people have not been believers for very long. They have only just become free from the wrong things that people do. But the false teachers tell these people to do bad things that will make them happy." 
2Peter2:19 The false teachers tell these believers to do whatever they want to do. They promise that this will make them really free. But the false teachers themselves are not free. Instead, they are like slaves. They cannot stop doing the bad things that will destroy them. We know that if something has power over a person, then that person is its slave." 
2Peter2:20 People like that learned about our Lord Jesus Christ, who saves us. As a result, they had stopped doing the bad things that belong to this world. They had become free from the power of those things. But now they have started to do those bad things again. Those things have power over them and they cannot stop doing them. So now, these false teachers are worse than they were at the beginning, before they believed in the Lord Jesus." 
2Peter2:21 It would have been better for them if they had never known God's good way. But they did understand about the right things that God wants us to do. And then they turned away from that way of life. They stopped obeying God's good rules, that people had taught them." 
2Peter2:22 You know these true proverbs: ‘After a dog has been sick, it returns to eat it again.’ Also: ‘After you wash a pig, it will quickly roll in the dirt again.’ These words describe how the false teachers live." 
2Peter3:1 My friends, this is the second letter that I have written to you. I have written both these letters to help you to understand some things. You already know these things. Now I want you to think about them carefully." 
2Peter3:2 I want you to remember the messages from God that his own prophets spoke a long time ago. Also, I want you to remember what our Lord Jesus told you to do. He is the one who saves us. He sent us, his apostles, to teach you his message." 
2Peter3:3 The first thing that you should understand is this. In the last days of this world, some people will laugh at you because you believe in God. These people will do whatever bad things they want to do." 
2Peter3:4 They will say: ‘Christ promised that he would return to this world. But he has not returned! Our ancestors have already died, but since God made the world in the beginning, nothing has changed.’" 
2Peter3:5 These people choose to forget things that they really know. A long time ago, God spoke his word and he made the sky and the earth. He caused land to come up through water. He made the land to be separate from the water." 
2Peter3:6 Also, God used water to destroy that same world long ago. He spoke his word and he covered the land with water." 
2Peter3:7 But God has also spoken his word to say what will happen to the world in a future time. The sky and the earth that we see now will continue for a time. But God is keeping them until the day when he will destroy them with fire. On that day he will judge all people. He will destroy the people who have turned away from him. 
2Peter3:8 My friends, here is one thing that you must remember. In the Lord God's mind, one day and 1,000 years are the same. For him, 1,000 years is like a single day." 
2Peter3:9 The Lord is not being slow to do what he has promised to do. Some people may think that he is being slow to do it. But he is being patient with you. He does not want to destroy anyone. He wants all people to turn away from the wrong things that they do. 
2Peter3:10 The great day of the Lord will suddenly happen. That will surprise people, like when someone comes to rob them. There will be a very loud noise in the sky. The whole sky will go away. Fire will burn the whole universe and it will destroy everything. The earth and everything that people have done on it will then be in the open." 
2Peter3:11 Certainly, God will destroy everything in this way one day. So think about how you should live now. You should be the kind of people that please God. You should show that you belong to God." 
2Peter3:12 Yes, you should continue to obey God while you are waiting for Christ to return. God has chosen that day. Try to live in a way that will make that day come soon. On that day, fire will completely burn the whole sky so that it is no longer there. Heat will cause the universe to melt." 
2Peter3:13 But God has promised to make a new sky and a new earth. That is what we are waiting for. That will be a home for everything that is good and right. 
2Peter3:14 So, my friends, live in a good way, because you are waiting for these things to happen. Try very much to do what makes God happy. Then, when you meet God, he will see that you are clean. He will see that you have peace in your minds." 
2Peter3:15 Remember that our Lord wants to save people from their sins. That is why he is now waiting patiently for people to turn to him before he will return. Paul has also written to you about these things. He is our friend that we love like a brother. God helped him to understand these things. 
2Peter3:16 He wrote about them in all his letters. Some things that he has written are difficult for people to understand. Some people have weak minds and they are not sure about what they believe. They explain Paul's teaching in a way that deceives people. They also explain other things in the Bible wrongly. As a result, those people will destroy themselves and God will punish them." 
2Peter3:17 My friends, you already know about these false teachers. So be very careful that you do not believe those bad people. Do not let them lead you away from God. You know what is true, so do not leave that safe place." 
2Peter3:18 Instead, you must grow as believers in our Lord Jesus Christ, who saves us. Continue to know him better and better. He will be kind to you and he will help you more and more. We praise him as he deserves! He is great now and he will be great for ever!" 
1John1:1 We have an important message to tell you. We want to tell you about the person who was already there before the beginning of the world. We have heard him speak. We have seen him with our own eyes. We watched him and we touched him. He is the Word that gives us life with God. 
1John1:1 We have an important message to tell you. We want to tell you about the person who was already there before the beginning of the world. We have heard him speak. We have seen him with our own eyes. We watched him and we touched him. He is the Word that gives us life with God. 
1John1:2 He showed himself clearly when he lived on this earth. From long ago he was together with God the Father, and he lives for ever. We saw him and we are telling you what is true. He is the one who has shown himself to us." 
1John1:2 He showed himself clearly when he lived on this earth. From long ago he was together with God the Father, and he lives for ever. We saw him and we are telling you what is true. He is the one who has shown himself to us." 
1John1:3 We also want you to share this new life with us. We share this life with God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son. That is why we are telling you about everything that we have seen and heard. 
1John1:3 We also want you to share this new life with us. We share this life with God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son. That is why we are telling you about everything that we have seen and heard. 
1John1:4 We are writing to you so that together we all may be completely happy. 
1John1:4 We are writing to you so that together we all may be completely happy. 
1John1:5 We are telling you the good news that Jesus Christ told to us. This is the message: God is completely pure, like light. There is nothing dark in him." 
1John1:5 We are telling you the good news that Jesus Christ told to us. This is the message: God is completely pure, like light. There is nothing dark in him." 
1John1:6 Do you say that you share in the life that God gives? If you say that, but if you still live in the dark, you are telling a lie. You are not living in God's true way." 
1John1:6 Do you say that you share in the life that God gives? If you say that, but if you still live in the dark, you are telling a lie. You are not living in God's true way." 
1John1:7 But when we live in a right way, it is like living in the light. God is always in the light. So, if we live in the light, we share together in the life which God gives. And when Jesus, the Son of God, died on the cross, he saved us from all our sins. The blood of his sacrifice makes us clean." 
1John1:7 But when we live in a right way, it is like living in the light. God is always in the light. So, if we live in the light, we share together in the life which God gives. And when Jesus, the Son of God, died on the cross, he saved us from all our sins. The blood of his sacrifice makes us clean." 
1John1:8 If we say that we never do any wrong thing, we are deceiving ourselves. Even though we may think it is true, it is a lie." 
1John1:8 If we say that we never do any wrong thing, we are deceiving ourselves. Even though we may think it is true, it is a lie." 
1John1:9 Instead, we should agree that we have done wrong things and tell that to God. Then God will forgive us for our sins. He always does what he has promised to do. He always does what is right. He will forgive us and he will make us clean again, whatever bad things we may have done." 
1John1:9 Instead, we should agree that we have done wrong things and tell that to God. Then God will forgive us for our sins. He always does what he has promised to do. He always does what is right. He will forgive us and he will make us clean again, whatever bad things we may have done." 
1John1:10 God says that all people have done wrong things. So, if we say that we have not done any wrong thing, we are saying that God tells lies. It shows that we have not accepted his message at all." 
1John1:10 God says that all people have done wrong things. So, if we say that we have not done any wrong thing, we are saying that God tells lies. It shows that we have not accepted his message at all." 
1John2:1 I am writing this letter to you, my friends who are like my little children. I am writing to you because I do not want you to do wrong things. But if anyone among you does something wrong, there is someone who will speak to God on our behalf. That person is Jesus Christ, who always does only what is right. He will ask our Father God to forgive you." 
1John2:1 I am writing this letter to you, my friends who are like my little children. I am writing to you because I do not want you to do wrong things. But if anyone among you does something wrong, there is someone who will speak to God on our behalf. That person is Jesus Christ, who always does only what is right. He will ask our Father God to forgive you." 
1John2:2 Jesus died as a sacrifice to take the punishment for our sin. Then God could forgive us. Jesus did that not only for us. He did it for all people in the world, so that God could forgive them for their sins." 
1John2:2 Jesus died as a sacrifice to take the punishment for our sin. Then God could forgive us. Jesus did that not only for us. He did it for all people in the world, so that God could forgive them for their sins." 
1John2:3 This is how we can be sure that we know God: If we obey God's commands, we know that we belong to him." 
1John2:3 This is how we can be sure that we know God: If we obey God's commands, we know that we belong to him." 
1John2:4 Someone might say, ‘I belong to God.’ But if he does not obey God's commands, that person is telling a lie. He is not living in the way that God's true message teaches us." 
1John2:4 Someone might say, ‘I belong to God.’ But if he does not obey God's commands, that person is telling a lie. He is not living in the way that God's true message teaches us." 
1John2:5 But anyone who obeys God's message shows that he really loves God completely. So this is how we know that we belong to God. 
1John2:5 But anyone who obeys God's message shows that he really loves God completely. So this is how we know that we belong to God. 
1John2:6 If we say that we are living in God's true way, then we must live in the way that Jesus lived." 
1John2:6 If we say that we are living in God's true way, then we must live in the way that Jesus lived." 
1John2:7 My friends, I am telling you to love one another. When I write this to you, I am not giving you a new rule. It is an old rule that you have had for a long time. We gave it to you when you began to obey Christ. It is the same message that you have already heard." 
1John2:7 My friends, I am telling you to love one another. When I write this to you, I am not giving you a new rule. It is an old rule that you have had for a long time. We gave it to you when you began to obey Christ. It is the same message that you have already heard." 
1John2:8 But there is something new about it. This rule has become true in the way that Christ lived. Now it has also become true in your lives. God's true message has brought light to shine in your lives. You no longer live in the dark where you do bad things. 
1John2:8 But there is something new about it. This rule has become true in the way that Christ lived. Now it has also become true in your lives. God's true message has brought light to shine in your lives. You no longer live in the dark where you do bad things. 
1John2:9 A person might say that he is living in the light. But if that person hates another believer, then he is telling a lie. He is still living in the dark." 
1John2:9 A person might say that he is living in the light. But if that person hates another believer, then he is telling a lie. He is still living in the dark." 
1John2:10 Anyone who loves other believers shows that he is living in the light. There is nothing that will make him turn away from God. 
1John2:10 Anyone who loves other believers shows that he is living in the light. There is nothing that will make him turn away from God. 
1John2:11 But if someone hates other believers, he is still living in a bad way. He is like someone who is walking in the dark. He cannot see where he is going. He is like a blind person. He cannot understand God's true message." 
1John2:11 But if someone hates other believers, he is still living in a bad way. He is like someone who is walking in the dark. He cannot see where he is going. He is like a blind person. He cannot understand God's true message." 
1John2:12 My little children, I am writing to you because God has forgiven your sins. He has done this because of Christ." 
1John2:12 My little children, I am writing to you because God has forgiven your sins. He has done this because of Christ." 
1John2:13 You who are older, like fathers, I am writing to you because you know Christ. He has always been there, since before the world began. You who are young men, I am writing to you because you have won against Satan." 
1John2:13 You who are older, like fathers, I am writing to you because you know Christ. He has always been there, since before the world began. You who are young men, I am writing to you because you have won against Satan." 
1John2:14 Yes, my children, I write to you because you know God, our Father. Fathers, I write to you because you know Christ. He was already there before the world began. Young men, I write to you because you are strong. You continue to obey God's message, and you have won against Satan." 
1John2:14 Yes, my children, I write to you because you know God, our Father. Fathers, I write to you because you know Christ. He was already there before the world began. Young men, I write to you because you are strong. You continue to obey God's message, and you have won against Satan." 
1John2:15 Do not live like people who do not know God. Do not love the wrong things that belong to this world. If anyone loves those things, it shows that they do not love God, their Father." 
1John2:15 Do not live like people who do not know God. Do not love the wrong things that belong to this world. If anyone loves those things, it shows that they do not love God, their Father." 
1John2:16 What are the wrong things that belong to this world? People want to do bad things to make themselves happy. People want to have things that they see, even bad things. People want to show other people how rich they are. These ideas do not come from God, our Father. They are the thoughts of people who belong to the world." 
1John2:16 What are the wrong things that belong to this world? People want to do bad things to make themselves happy. People want to have things that they see, even bad things. People want to show other people how rich they are. These ideas do not come from God, our Father. They are the thoughts of people who belong to the world." 
1John2:17 One day, those people and the things that they want will not be there any longer. But those who continue to do what God wants will live for ever." 
1John2:17 One day, those people and the things that they want will not be there any longer. But those who continue to do what God wants will live for ever." 
1John2:18 My children, the world will soon end. You have heard that the enemy of Christ will appear. You can see that many enemies of Christ have already appeared. This shows us that the world will end soon." 
1John2:18 My children, the world will soon end. You have heard that the enemy of Christ will appear. You can see that many enemies of Christ have already appeared. This shows us that the world will end soon." 
1John2:19 These people used to be in our group of believers. But they left us. They never really belonged to our group. If they had been true believers, they would have remained with us. When they left us, it showed clearly that none of them really belonged to us." 
1John2:19 These people used to be in our group of believers. But they left us. They never really belonged to our group. If they had been true believers, they would have remained with us. When they left us, it showed clearly that none of them really belonged to us." 
1John2:20 But Christ, the Holy One, has given you the Holy Spirit. As a result, you all know what is true." 
1John2:20 But Christ, the Holy One, has given you the Holy Spirit. As a result, you all know what is true." 
1John2:21 That is why I am writing to you. It is not because you do not yet know God's true message. I am writing to you because you do know that true message. And you can be sure that there are no lies in it. 
1John2:21 That is why I am writing to you. It is not because you do not yet know God's true message. I am writing to you because you do know that true message. And you can be sure that there are no lies in it. 
1John2:22 Who is the one who tells the worst lies? It is anyone who says that Jesus is not the Messiah. A person like that is the enemy of Christ. He is speaking against God the Father and against Jesus, his Son." 
1John2:22 Who is the one who tells the worst lies? It is anyone who says that Jesus is not the Messiah. A person like that is the enemy of Christ. He is speaking against God the Father and against Jesus, his Son." 
1John2:23 Anyone who says that Jesus is not God's Son does not belong to the Father. But anyone who accepts Jesus as the Son of God also belongs to the Father. 
1John2:23 Anyone who says that Jesus is not God's Son does not belong to the Father. But anyone who accepts Jesus as the Son of God also belongs to the Father. 
1John2:24 As for you, always remember the true message that you heard at the beginning. If you continue to believe that message, you will continue to live with the Son and with the Father." 
1John2:24 As for you, always remember the true message that you heard at the beginning. If you continue to believe that message, you will continue to live with the Son and with the Father." 
1John2:25 That is the real life that continues for ever. And that is what God has promised to give to us. 
1John2:25 That is the real life that continues for ever. And that is what God has promised to give to us. 
1John2:26 Some people are trying to lead you away from God's true message. I am writing these things to you so that you know about these people. 
1John2:26 Some people are trying to lead you away from God's true message. I am writing these things to you so that you know about these people. 
1John2:27 But Christ has given the Holy Spirit to you, and he continues to help you. So you do not need people to teach you what is true. The Holy Spirit himself teaches you everything about God's message. He helps you to know what is true. He does not tell you any lies. So you must remember what he has taught you. Continue to live together with Christ." 
1John2:27 But Christ has given the Holy Spirit to you, and he continues to help you. So you do not need people to teach you what is true. The Holy Spirit himself teaches you everything about God's message. He helps you to know what is true. He does not tell you any lies. So you must remember what he has taught you. Continue to live together with Christ." 
1John2:28 Yes, my children, continue to live with Christ. Then we will not be ashamed when he returns to this world. We will not be afraid to meet him." 
1John2:28 Yes, my children, continue to live with Christ. Then we will not be ashamed when he returns to this world. We will not be afraid to meet him." 
1John2:29 You know that Christ only does what is right. So you should know this: Everyone who continues to do what is right has become a child of God. 
1John2:29 You know that Christ only does what is right. So you should know this: Everyone who continues to do what is right has become a child of God. 
1John3:1 Think about how much God the Father loves us. He calls us his children! God loves us so much that we really have become his children. The people who belong to this world do not understand who God is. Because of that, they do not understand who we are." 
1John3:1 Think about how much God the Father loves us. He calls us his children! God loves us so much that we really have become his children. The people who belong to this world do not understand who God is. Because of that, they do not understand who we are." 
1John3:2 My friends, we are already children of God. We do not yet know clearly what we will become. But we do know this: when Christ returns to this world, we will become like him. We will be like him because we will see him as he really is." 
1John3:2 My friends, we are already children of God. We do not yet know clearly what we will become. But we do know this: when Christ returns to this world, we will become like him. We will be like him because we will see him as he really is." 
1John3:3 Christ is completely good. So all of us who hope to see him then must keep ourselves clean from sin. 
1John3:3 Christ is completely good. So all of us who hope to see him then must keep ourselves clean from sin. 
1John3:4 If a person continues to do wrong things, he is choosing not to obey God's rules. Sin is when we do not obey God's rules." 
1John3:4 If a person continues to do wrong things, he is choosing not to obey God's rules. Sin is when we do not obey God's rules." 
1John3:5 You know that Jesus came into the world so that he might take away our sins. He himself is completely clean from sin. 
1John3:5 You know that Jesus came into the world so that he might take away our sins. He himself is completely clean from sin. 
1John3:6 Anyone who lives together with Christ does not continue to do wrong things. If anyone continues to do wrong things, that person has not understood who Christ is. He does not know Christ." 
1John3:6 Anyone who lives together with Christ does not continue to do wrong things. If anyone continues to do wrong things, that person has not understood who Christ is. He does not know Christ." 
1John3:7 My little children, do not let anyone deceive you about sin. It is people who live in a good way that God accepts as right. In the same way, Jesus did only what is good and right." 
1John3:7 My little children, do not let anyone deceive you about sin. It is people who live in a good way that God accepts as right. In the same way, Jesus did only what is good and right." 
1John3:8 People who continue to do wrong things show that they belong to the devil. The devil has always been doing wrong things from the beginning. This is why the Son of God came to the world. He came to destroy everything that the devil has done. 
1John3:8 People who continue to do wrong things show that they belong to the devil. The devil has always been doing wrong things from the beginning. This is why the Son of God came to the world. He came to destroy everything that the devil has done. 
1John3:9 Everybody who is a child of God does not continue to do wrong things. This is because God has given them a new life. He has caused them to become his children. So they cannot continue to do wrong things. 
1John3:9 Everybody who is a child of God does not continue to do wrong things. This is because God has given them a new life. He has caused them to become his children. So they cannot continue to do wrong things. 
1John3:10 In this way, we can see clearly who are God's children and who are the devil's children. Anyone who does not live in a way that is good and right does not belong to God. People like that do not love other believers." 
1John3:10 In this way, we can see clearly who are God's children and who are the devil's children. Anyone who does not live in a way that is good and right does not belong to God. People like that do not love other believers." 
1John3:11 Yes, we must love one another. That is the message which you have heard from the beginning." 
1John3:11 Yes, we must love one another. That is the message which you have heard from the beginning." 
1John3:12 We should not be like Cain. He belonged to Satan and he even killed his brother, Abel. Why did he do that? Cain did bad things and he killed Abel because Abel did things that were right." 
1John3:12 We should not be like Cain. He belonged to Satan and he even killed his brother, Abel. Why did he do that? Cain did bad things and he killed Abel because Abel did things that were right." 
1John3:13 So, my Christian friends, do not be surprised when people who belong to this world hate you." 
1John3:13 So, my Christian friends, do not be surprised when people who belong to this world hate you." 
1John3:14 We know that we now have new life with God. Death no longer has power over us. We know this because we love our Christian friends. But anyone who does not love other believers is still under the power of death. 
1John3:14 We know that we now have new life with God. Death no longer has power over us. We know this because we love our Christian friends. But anyone who does not love other believers is still under the power of death. 
1John3:15 Anyone who hates other believers is like someone who murders other people. You know that a person like that does not have true life with God. 
1John3:15 Anyone who hates other believers is like someone who murders other people. You know that a person like that does not have true life with God. 
1John3:16 This is how we know what true love is: Jesus Christ gave his own life on the cross. He died on our behalf. So we too ought to give our lives for other believers. 
1John3:16 This is how we know what true love is: Jesus Christ gave his own life on the cross. He died on our behalf. So we too ought to give our lives for other believers. 
1John3:17 When another believer has trouble, we need to be kind to him. Maybe you have all the things that you need to live. If you see another believer who needs things like that, you should help him. If you refuse to be kind to him, it shows that you do not belong to God. You do not love people in the way that God loves them." 
1John3:17 When another believer has trouble, we need to be kind to him. Maybe you have all the things that you need to live. If you see another believer who needs things like that, you should help him. If you refuse to be kind to him, it shows that you do not belong to God. You do not love people in the way that God loves them." 
1John3:18 My little children, we should not show love for each other only by what we say. We should also show true love by the things that we do." 
1John3:18 My little children, we should not show love for each other only by what we say. We should also show true love by the things that we do." 
1John3:19 Then we will know that we truly belong to God. We will be obeying God's true message. As a result, our thoughts will not make us ashamed to come to God." 
1John3:19 Then we will know that we truly belong to God. We will be obeying God's true message. As a result, our thoughts will not make us ashamed to come to God." 
1John3:20 Even if our thoughts tell us that we have done something wrong, we still will not be afraid of God. We can trust God more than we trust our thoughts. He already knows everything about us." 
1John3:20 Even if our thoughts tell us that we have done something wrong, we still will not be afraid of God. We can trust God more than we trust our thoughts. He already knows everything about us." 
1John3:21 My friends, if our thoughts do not tell us that we are guilty, we will not be afraid to come to God." 
1John3:21 My friends, if our thoughts do not tell us that we are guilty, we will not be afraid to come to God." 
1John3:22 We can pray to God and we can ask him to help us. He will give us what we ask him for. That is because we obey his commands and we do the things that please him. 
1John3:22 We can pray to God and we can ask him to help us. He will give us what we ask him for. That is because we obey his commands and we do the things that please him. 
1John3:23 This is God's command to us: we must believe that Jesus Christ is his Son. And we must love each other, as Jesus commanded us." 
1John3:23 This is God's command to us: we must believe that Jesus Christ is his Son. And we must love each other, as Jesus commanded us." 
1John3:24 Anyone who obeys God's commands lives together with God. God also lives in him. How do we know that God lives in us? It is because of his Holy Spirit that he has given to us. 
1John3:24 Anyone who obeys God's commands lives together with God. God also lives in him. How do we know that God lives in us? It is because of his Holy Spirit that he has given to us. 
1John4:1 My friends, do not believe everyone who says that they speak God's message. There are many false prophets who are travelling around everywhere. They say that they have a message from God's Spirit, but the message comes from a false spirit. So check each message carefully to see if it is really from God." 
1John4:1 My friends, do not believe everyone who says that they speak God's message. There are many false prophets who are travelling around everywhere. They say that they have a message from God's Spirit, but the message comes from a false spirit. So check each message carefully to see if it is really from God." 
1John4:2 How do you know whether a person has God's Spirit in him? He must agree that Jesus is God's Messiah who was born as a human baby. If someone says that, then he has God's Spirit." 
1John4:2 How do you know whether a person has God's Spirit in him? He must agree that Jesus is God's Messiah who was born as a human baby. If someone says that, then he has God's Spirit." 
1John4:3 But if someone does not agree to say that about Jesus, he does not have God's Spirit. That person has a spirit that comes from the enemy of Christ. You have heard that this enemy of Christ would come among us. Now this spirit is already here in the world." 
1John4:3 But if someone does not agree to say that about Jesus, he does not have God's Spirit. That person has a spirit that comes from the enemy of Christ. You have heard that this enemy of Christ would come among us. Now this spirit is already here in the world." 
1John4:4 My little children, you belong to God. You have won against those people with a false message. You have been able to do that because God's Holy Spirit is in you. He is more powerful than the spirit that belongs to this world." 
1John4:4 My little children, you belong to God. You have won against those people with a false message. You have been able to do that because God's Holy Spirit is in you. He is more powerful than the spirit that belongs to this world." 
1John4:5 Those false prophets belong to this world. Their message comes from the ideas of people of this world. So the people of this world believe what they teach. 
1John4:5 Those false prophets belong to this world. Their message comes from the ideas of people of this world. So the people of this world believe what they teach. 
1John4:6 But we belong to God. Everyone who knows God believes our message. But anyone who does not belong to God does not believe it. So that is how we know if someone's message comes from God's Spirit or not. God's Spirit brings us a true message, but false spirits tell lies." 
1John4:6 But we belong to God. Everyone who knows God believes our message. But anyone who does not belong to God does not believe it. So that is how we know if someone's message comes from God's Spirit or not. God's Spirit brings us a true message, but false spirits tell lies." 
1John4:7 My friends, we should all love each other. It is God who makes us able to love other people. Everyone who loves other people has become a child of God. That person knows God." 
1John4:7 My friends, we should all love each other. It is God who makes us able to love other people. Everyone who loves other people has become a child of God. That person knows God." 
1John4:8 Anyone who does not love other people does not know God. We know this because God's own nature is love. 
1John4:8 Anyone who does not love other people does not know God. We know this because God's own nature is love. 
1John4:9 This is how God showed that he loves us: He sent his only Son to come and live in the world. He did that so that we could have true life with God because of his Son. 
1John4:9 This is how God showed that he loves us: He sent his only Son to come and live in the world. He did that so that we could have true life with God because of his Son. 
1John4:10 This shows what love is: It is not that we have loved God, but that he loved us. He loved us so much that he sent his Son to save us from sin. He sent Jesus to die as a sacrifice, to take the punishment for our sins." 
1John4:10 This shows what love is: It is not that we have loved God, but that he loved us. He loved us so much that he sent his Son to save us from sin. He sent Jesus to die as a sacrifice, to take the punishment for our sins." 
1John4:11 My friends, this shows how much God has loved us. So we also should love one another." 
1John4:11 My friends, this shows how much God has loved us. So we also should love one another." 
1John4:12 Nobody has ever seen God. But, if we love each other, it shows that God lives in us. As a result, we can love people completely, in the same way that God loves us." 
1John4:12 Nobody has ever seen God. But, if we love each other, it shows that God lives in us. As a result, we can love people completely, in the same way that God loves us." 
1John4:13 God has given us his Holy Spirit to live in us. Because of this, we know that we live together with God. And we know that he lives with us." 
1John4:13 God has given us his Holy Spirit to live in us. Because of this, we know that we live together with God. And we know that he lives with us." 
1John4:14 God the Father sent his Son to come into the world. God sent him to save the people of the world from their sins. We apostles have seen that this is true. So now we are telling people about it. 
1John4:14 God the Father sent his Son to come into the world. God sent him to save the people of the world from their sins. We apostles have seen that this is true. So now we are telling people about it. 
1John4:15 If anyone says clearly that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in that person. And that person lives together with God." 
1John4:15 If anyone says clearly that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in that person. And that person lives together with God." 
1John4:16 So we know the kind of love that God has for us. We believe that God has put that love in us. God's nature is love. So, if someone continues to love other people, he is living together with God. And God lives in him." 
1John4:16 So we know the kind of love that God has for us. We believe that God has put that love in us. God's nature is love. So, if someone continues to love other people, he is living together with God. And God lives in him." 
1John4:17 That is how we are able to love other people completely. Then, we will not be afraid on the day when God will judge all people. We can be sure that God will not punish us. We know this because we have lived in this world in the way that Jesus lived." 
1John4:17 That is how we are able to love other people completely. Then, we will not be afraid on the day when God will judge all people. We can be sure that God will not punish us. We know this because we have lived in this world in the way that Jesus lived." 
1John4:18 If we really love God, we will not be afraid of him. We cannot love him completely and also be afraid. We would only be afraid of God if we thought that he would punish us. So, if someone is afraid that God will punish them, it shows that they do not completely know God's love." 
1John4:18 If we really love God, we will not be afraid of him. We cannot love him completely and also be afraid. We would only be afraid of God if we thought that he would punish us. So, if someone is afraid that God will punish them, it shows that they do not completely know God's love." 
1John4:19 We are able to love God and other people because God loved us first. 
1John4:19 We are able to love God and other people because God loved us first. 
1John4:20 Someone might say, ‘I love God.’ But if he says that and he hates another Christian, he is telling a lie. He does not love other believers that he can see. So he surely cannot love God when he cannot see God." 
1John4:20 Someone might say, ‘I love God.’ But if he says that and he hates another Christian, he is telling a lie. He does not love other believers that he can see. So he surely cannot love God when he cannot see God." 
1John4:21 This is the command that God has given us: Anyone who loves him must love other Christians too. 
1John4:21 This is the command that God has given us: Anyone who loves him must love other Christians too. 
1John5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is God's Messiah has become a child of God. And if we love God, our Father, we will love his other children too." 
1John5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is God's Messiah has become a child of God. And if we love God, our Father, we will love his other children too." 
1John5:2 How do we know that we love God's children? We know it when we love God and we do what he tells us to do. 
1John5:2 How do we know that we love God's children? We know it when we love God and we do what he tells us to do. 
1John5:3 Because, if we really love God, we will obey his commands. And those commands are not difficult for us to obey." 
1John5:3 Because, if we really love God, we will obey his commands. And those commands are not difficult for us to obey." 
1John5:4 Because we have become God's children, we can live in a good way. We can refuse to live like people who belong to this world. We are able to win against the wrong ways of this world because we trust Jesus Christ." 
1John5:4 Because we have become God's children, we can live in a good way. We can refuse to live like people who belong to this world. We are able to win against the wrong ways of this world because we trust Jesus Christ." 
1John5:5 It is only people who believe that Jesus is the Son of God who can do that. Only they can win against the wrong ways of this world. 
1John5:5 It is only people who believe that Jesus is the Son of God who can do that. Only they can win against the wrong ways of this world. 
1John5:6 Jesus Christ is the one who came into the world. John baptized Jesus in water. When Jesus died, his blood poured out. God showed that Jesus is his Son with the water and with the blood. It was not only with the water of Jesus' baptism. It was also with the blood of his death. God's Holy Spirit also shows us that Jesus is God's Son. The Holy Spirit always says what is true." 
1John5:6 Jesus Christ is the one who came into the world. John baptized Jesus in water. When Jesus died, his blood poured out. God showed that Jesus is his Son with the water and with the blood. It was not only with the water of Jesus' baptism. It was also with the blood of his death. God's Holy Spirit also shows us that Jesus is God's Son. The Holy Spirit always says what is true." 
1John5:7 So there are three things that show us clearly that Jesus came from God. 
1John5:7 So there are three things that show us clearly that Jesus came from God. 
1John5:8 Those things are the Holy Spirit, the water of Jesus' baptism and the blood of his death on the cross. These all show us the same thing, that Jesus came from God." 
1John5:8 Those things are the Holy Spirit, the water of Jesus' baptism and the blood of his death on the cross. These all show us the same thing, that Jesus came from God." 
1John5:9 We believe people who tell us about things that they know. So we can believe even more what God says. He has told us what is true about his Son. So we should believe his message. 
1John5:9 We believe people who tell us about things that they know. So we can believe even more what God says. He has told us what is true about his Son. So we should believe his message. 
1John5:10 Anyone who believes in Jesus, the Son of God, will know that what God says is true. But anyone who does not believe God is saying that God tells lies. He does not believe the message that God has told us clearly about his Son." 
1John5:10 Anyone who believes in Jesus, the Son of God, will know that what God says is true. But anyone who does not believe God is saying that God tells lies. He does not believe the message that God has told us clearly about his Son." 
1John5:11 This is what God has told us: God has given us life with him that never ends. We receive this life when we believe in his Son, Jesus." 
1John5:11 This is what God has told us: God has given us life with him that never ends. We receive this life when we believe in his Son, Jesus." 
1John5:12 So whoever belongs to the Son has this true life. But anyone who does not belong to the Son of God does not have this true life. 
1John5:12 So whoever belongs to the Son has this true life. But anyone who does not belong to the Son of God does not have this true life. 
1John5:13 I write these things to you who believe that Jesus is the Son of God. I want you to know that you have true life with God for ever. 
1John5:13 I write these things to you who believe that Jesus is the Son of God. I want you to know that you have true life with God for ever. 
1John5:14 Also, we can trust God to help us when we turn to him. We know that he will hear us. When we ask for anything that he wants us to have, he listens to us." 
1John5:14 Also, we can trust God to help us when we turn to him. We know that he will hear us. When we ask for anything that he wants us to have, he listens to us." 
1John5:15 Since we know that, we also know that God will give us the things that we ask for. It is as if we have already received those things from him." 
1John5:15 Since we know that, we also know that God will give us the things that we ask for. It is as if we have already received those things from him." 
1John5:16 If you see that another Christian is doing something bad, this is what you should do. If it is a sin that does not cause death, pray that God will help him. Then God will help that person to live for ever with him. That is for a sin which does not cause death. But there is a sin that causes death. If another Christian does that, I am not saying that you should pray for God to help that person." 
1John5:16 If you see that another Christian is doing something bad, this is what you should do. If it is a sin that does not cause death, pray that God will help him. Then God will help that person to live for ever with him. That is for a sin which does not cause death. But there is a sin that causes death. If another Christian does that, I am not saying that you should pray for God to help that person." 
1John5:17 Any wrong thing that a person does is sin. But not all sins cause death. 
1John5:17 Any wrong thing that a person does is sin. But not all sins cause death. 
1John5:18 Nobody who has become a child of God continues to do wrong things. Instead, the Son of God keeps him safe. Satan cannot do anything against a child of God." 
1John5:18 Nobody who has become a child of God continues to do wrong things. Instead, the Son of God keeps him safe. Satan cannot do anything against a child of God." 
1John5:19 We know that we belong to God. We know that Satan rules all the people who belong to this world. 
1John5:19 We know that we belong to God. We know that Satan rules all the people who belong to this world. 
1John5:20 We also know that the Son of God has come into the world. He has helped us to understand what is true. As a result, we know the only true God. We live together with this true God, because we belong to his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God. He is the one who gives us life with God for ever." 
1John5:20 We also know that the Son of God has come into the world. He has helped us to understand what is true. As a result, we know the only true God. We live together with this true God, because we belong to his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God. He is the one who gives us life with God for ever." 
1John5:21 My little children, be careful to keep away from idols." 
1John5:21 My little children, be careful to keep away from idols." 
2John1:1 This letter comes from me, the leader of the believers. I am writing to you, a special lady that God has chosen, and to your children. I love all of you, because you have believed God's true message. And I am not the only one who loves you. Everyone who knows the true message about God really loves you." 
2John1:1 This letter comes from me, the leader of the believers. I am writing to you, a special lady that God has chosen, and to your children. I love all of you, because you have believed God's true message. And I am not the only one who loves you. Everyone who knows the true message about God really loves you." 
2John1:2 I love you because we have all come to understand what is true. It will remain with us for ever. 
2John1:2 I love you because we have all come to understand what is true. It will remain with us for ever. 
2John1:3 God our Father, and his Son Jesus Christ will help us. He will be kind to us and he will give us peace in our minds. This will happen because God loves us and because we believe his true message." 
2John1:3 God our Father, and his Son Jesus Christ will help us. He will be kind to us and he will give us peace in our minds. This will happen because God loves us and because we believe his true message." 
2John1:4 I was very happy to hear about some of your children. I am happy because they are living in a good way. They are obeying the true message about God. They are doing what God our Father has told us to do. 
2John1:4 I was very happy to hear about some of your children. I am happy because they are living in a good way. They are obeying the true message about God. They are doing what God our Father has told us to do. 
2John1:5 So now, dear lady, I want you to do something. I want all of us to love one another. I am not telling you a new command to obey. This is a command that we have had from the beginning." 
2John1:5 So now, dear lady, I want you to do something. I want all of us to love one another. I am not telling you a new command to obey. This is a command that we have had from the beginning." 
2John1:6 How do we show real love? We show it when we live in a way that makes God happy. We obey his commands. He tells us to love one another, and that is how you should live. You have heard that command from the beginning." 
2John1:6 How do we show real love? We show it when we live in a way that makes God happy. We obey his commands. He tells us to love one another, and that is how you should live. You have heard that command from the beginning." 
2John1:7 I say this because many false teachers are travelling around everywhere. They do not agree that Jesus Christ was born as a human baby. People like that are telling lies. They are enemies of Christ. 
2John1:7 I say this because many false teachers are travelling around everywhere. They do not agree that Jesus Christ was born as a human baby. People like that are telling lies. They are enemies of Christ. 
2John1:8 So be careful! Do not believe their lies. Do not lose the good things that we have worked for. Make sure that you receive all the good things that God has promised to give you. 
2John1:8 So be careful! Do not believe their lies. Do not lose the good things that we have worked for. Make sure that you receive all the good things that God has promised to give you. 
2John1:9 Remember the message which Christ taught. Anyone who teaches his own ideas instead of Christ's true message does not belong to God. Continue to believe what Christ taught. Anyone who does that belongs to God the Father and to his Son, Jesus." 
2John1:9 Remember the message which Christ taught. Anyone who teaches his own ideas instead of Christ's true message does not belong to God. Continue to believe what Christ taught. Anyone who does that belongs to God the Father and to his Son, Jesus." 
2John1:10 Someone may come to you and teach you something that is different. Do not receive that person into your house. Do not receive him as a Christian. 
2John1:10 Someone may come to you and teach you something that is different. Do not receive that person into your house. Do not receive him as a Christian. 
2John1:11 If you receive people like that as Christian people, you are making yourself the same as them. You also are doing the same kind of bad work." 
2John1:11 If you receive people like that as Christian people, you are making yourself the same as them. You also are doing the same kind of bad work." 
2John1:12 I want to tell you many more things, but I do not want to write about them in a letter. Instead, I hope to come and visit you. Then I can see you and we can talk together. Then we will be completely happy." 
2John1:12 I want to tell you many more things, but I do not want to write about them in a letter. Instead, I hope to come and visit you. Then I can see you and we can talk together. Then we will be completely happy." 
2John1:13 The believers here say ‘hello’ to you. They are the children of your sister that God has chosen. 
2John1:13 The believers here say ‘hello’ to you. They are the children of your sister that God has chosen. 
3John1:1 This letter comes from me, the leader of the believers. I am writing to you, my friend Gaius. I love you because we believe God's true message." 
3John1:1 This letter comes from me, the leader of the believers. I am writing to you, my friend Gaius. I love you because we believe God's true message." 
3John1:2 My friend, I pray that God will help you to live well. I know that you are well in your spirit. I pray that your body will also be well." 
3John1:2 My friend, I pray that God will help you to live well. I know that you are well in your spirit. I pray that your body will also be well." 
3John1:3 I was very happy when I heard news about you. Some Christian friends came here to tell me about you. They said that you are living in a good way. That is the way that God's true message tells us to live. 
3John1:3 I was very happy when I heard news about you. Some Christian friends came here to tell me about you. They said that you are living in a good way. That is the way that God's true message tells us to live. 
3John1:4 I am happy when I hear that my children are living like that. When they obey God's true message, it makes me very happy." 
3John1:4 I am happy when I hear that my children are living like that. When they obey God's true message, it makes me very happy." 
3John1:5 My friend, you do many things to help other believers. You help them even when they are strangers to you. This shows that you are serving God well." 
3John1:5 My friend, you do many things to help other believers. You help them even when they are strangers to you. This shows that you are serving God well." 
3John1:6 These men have spoken to the group of believers here about your love. Please continue to help them when they visit you. Give them the things that they need to continue on their journey. That will make God happy. 
3John1:6 These men have spoken to the group of believers here about your love. Please continue to help them when they visit you. Give them the things that they need to continue on their journey. That will make God happy. 
3John1:7 They are travelling to different places to tell people about Jesus Christ. They do not accept any gifts from those people who are not Christians. 
3John1:7 They are travelling to different places to tell people about Jesus Christ. They do not accept any gifts from those people who are not Christians. 
3John1:8 Because of that, we Christians must help them with the things that they need. In this way we will be working together with them as they tell people the true message about Christ." 
3John1:8 Because of that, we Christians must help them with the things that they need. In this way we will be working together with them as they tell people the true message about Christ." 
3John1:9 I have already written something to the group of believers. But Diotrephes refuses to accept our authority. He really wants to be the only leader among them. 
3John1:9 I have already written something to the group of believers. But Diotrephes refuses to accept our authority. He really wants to be the only leader among them. 
3John1:10 So, when I arrive there myself, I will speak to the believers about this. I will tell them clearly about the bad things that Diotrephes is doing. He tells other people bad things about us that are not true. Even that is not enough for him. He himself refuses to welcome the believers who are visiting. He also stops anyone else who wants to welcome those visitors. Instead, he sends them away from the group of believers." 
3John1:10 So, when I arrive there myself, I will speak to the believers about this. I will tell them clearly about the bad things that Diotrephes is doing. He tells other people bad things about us that are not true. Even that is not enough for him. He himself refuses to welcome the believers who are visiting. He also stops anyone else who wants to welcome those visitors. Instead, he sends them away from the group of believers." 
3John1:11 My friend, do not copy what bad people do. Instead, you should copy the good things that people do. The person who does good things shows that he belongs to God. But anyone who does bad things does not know God." 
3John1:11 My friend, do not copy what bad people do. Instead, you should copy the good things that people do. The person who does good things shows that he belongs to God. But anyone who does bad things does not know God." 
3John1:12 All the believers say that Demetrius is a good person. He obeys God's true message. That also shows clearly that he is a good person. We also say the same thing about him. You know very well that what we say about him is true. 
3John1:12 All the believers say that Demetrius is a good person. He obeys God's true message. That also shows clearly that he is a good person. We also say the same thing about him. You know very well that what we say about him is true. 
3John1:13 I would like to tell you many more things. But I do not want to write them in a letter. 
3John1:13 I would like to tell you many more things. But I do not want to write them in a letter. 
3John1:14 Instead, I hope to come and visit you soon. Then I can see you and we can talk together." 
3John1:14 Instead, I hope to come and visit you soon. Then I can see you and we can talk together." 
3John1:15 I pray that God will give you peace. All your Christian friends here say ‘hello’ to you. Say ‘hello’ for me to each of my friends there, one by one." 
3John1:15 I pray that God will give you peace. All your Christian friends here say ‘hello’ to you. Say ‘hello’ for me to each of my friends there, one by one." 
Jude1:1 This letter is from me, Jude. I am Jesus Christ's servant and I am James's brother. I am writing to you people that God the Father loves. God has chosen you to be his own people. He is keeping you safe until the time when Jesus Christ returns." 
Jude1:1 This letter is from me, Jude. I am Jesus Christ's servant and I am James's brother. I am writing to you people that God the Father loves. God has chosen you to be his own people. He is keeping you safe until the time when Jesus Christ returns." 
Jude1:2 I pray that God will be kind to you and that he will give you peace in your minds more and more. I want you to know more and more how much God loves you. 
Jude1:3 My friends, I wanted very much to write to you about how God has saved us from sin. That is what he has done for you and for us. But instead of that, I now know that I must write to you about something else. I must tell you to be strong and brave. You must do everything that you can to keep God's true message safe. God has given this message to his special people and his message will never change. Do not let anyone teach you a different message." 
Jude1:4 I say this because certain bad people have secretly come among you. They have turned away from God. They are trying to change God's true message. They teach that we can do any evil things that we want to do. They say that God will be kind and he will forgive us for all those things. They do not accept the authority of Jesus Christ, who is our only Master and our Lord. God will certainly punish those wicked people. A long time ago God said that he would punish people like them." 
Jude1:5 Remember that the Lord brought Israel's people out of Egypt where they had been slaves. But later he destroyed all those same people who did not trust him. I want you to remember these important things. You should already know all about them, but you must never forget them." 
Jude1:6 Also remember that some angels refused to obey God. They took more authority for themselves than God had given them. They left their own proper place with God in heaven. So God has tied them up as prisoners for ever in a completely dark place. He will keep them there until that great day when he will judge everyone. 
Jude1:7 Also, remember what happened to the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and the other cities that were near them. Like those bad angels, the people who lived in those places were also doing evil things. They were having sex with people who were not their husbands or their wives. They liked to have sex in other ways that are not right. God destroyed their cities. He has punished them with fire that never stops burning. That is an example of what will happen to wicked people like them." 
Jude1:8 These false teachers who have come among you do the same kind of bad things. Their dreams deceive them so that they use their bodies to do disgusting things. They refuse to obey God's authority. They insult God's powerful angels. 
Jude1:9 Even the leader of God's angels, Michael, did not speak bad words like that against the devil. Long ago, Michael argued with the devil about who should have Moses' dead body. But even when the devil said bad words against God, Michael himself did not speak against the devil. He did not think that he should do that. Instead, Michael said, ‘The Lord himself will show that you are wrong.’" 
Jude1:10 But these false teachers speak bad things against anything that they do not understand. They are like animals that cannot think properly. They just do the things that their nature causes them to do. Those are the things that are destroying them. 
Jude1:11 It will be very bad for them! They have lived in the way that Cain lived. They have made the same mistake that Balaam made, because they wanted to get money for themselves. Like Korah, they have refused to obey God. So God will destroy them." 
Jude1:12 When you eat special meals together as believers, those false teachers meet with you. But they are dangerous! They will stop you showing your love for one another. They come only because they want to eat too much. They do not respect God or other people. They only think about themselves and they are not ashamed. They are like clouds that you think will bring rain. But the wind blows those clouds along and there is no rain. They are like trees that have no fruit, even at the time for harvest. People pull trees like that out of the ground. They are completely dead and can give no fruit." 
Jude1:13 Those false teachers are like water in the sea that the wind blows during a storm. The dirt that comes to the top of the water is like the disgusting things that those people do. They are like stars that have moved away from their proper places in the sky. God has prepared a completely dark place for them. God will keep them there for ever. 
Jude1:14 Long ago, Enoch also spoke about those false teachers. He belonged to the seventh family that was born, starting with Adam. Enoch said, ‘Look, the Lord will come with many thousands of his own angels." 
Jude1:15 He will judge all people. He will punish everyone who lives in a way that does not please him. He will punish them because of all the wicked things that they have done. He will punish them because of all the bad words that they have spoken against him.’ 
Jude1:16 Those people are always complaining. They like to accuse other people. They do any bad things that will make themselves happy. They speak great things about themselves, to show how important they are. They praise other people only so that they can get something good for themselves." 
Jude1:17 But as for you, my friends, remember the message that the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ have taught you. They spoke about what would happen in future times." 
Jude1:18 They said to you, ‘In the last days of this world, some people will laugh at God's message. They will say that it is silly to obey God. Instead, they will do the bad things that they want to do. Those things do not please God.’" 
Jude1:19 It is people like this who cause you to argue with one another, so that you belong to separate groups. Their thoughts belong to this world. They do not have God's Spirit in them." 
Jude1:20 But you, my friends, have believed the message that comes from God himself. So you must help one another to trust God more and more. Pray to God with the help of the Holy Spirit." 
Jude1:21 Continue to live in a way that shows God's love. As you wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to come, remember that he is very kind. Because of that, you will have life with God for ever." 
Jude1:22 Help those people who do not know whether to trust God. Be kind to them. 
Jude1:23 Some people are in great danger. You must save them from the fire of God's punishment. Also be kind to people who have done wicked and disgusting things. But be careful! Do not let their sins make you bad too. 
Jude1:24 God is able to keep you safe so that you continue to trust him. One day you will stand in front of him and you will be very happy. God will bring you to that place and you will be completely good. You will be able to stand near to God, who shines with beautiful light." 
Jude1:25 He is the only God. He is the one who saves us because of our Lord Jesus Christ. So we praise him! We say that he is very great! He rules with power and authority. This has always been true. It is true now, and it will be true for ever. Amen." 
Revelation1:1 This book describes the things that God showed to Jesus Christ. He wanted Jesus to show these things to his own servants. They are events that must happen soon. Jesus sent his angel to show them to me, his servant John." 
Revelation1:1 This book describes the things that God showed to Jesus Christ. He wanted Jesus to show these things to his own servants. They are events that must happen soon. Jesus sent his angel to show them to me, his servant John." 
Revelation1:2 I, John, have written about everything that God showed me. These things are a true message from God. They are the things that Jesus Christ says are true." 
Revelation1:2 I, John, have written about everything that God showed me. These things are a true message from God. They are the things that Jesus Christ says are true." 
Revelation1:3 If anyone reads aloud the words of this prophecy, God will bless that person. God will also bless the people who listen to these words, if they continue to obey them. The things that are written here will soon happen." 
Revelation1:4 I am John. I am writing to the seven churches that are in the region of Asia. I pray that God will be very kind to you. I pray that he will give you peace in your minds. God is alive now. He has always been alive. He will continue to be alive for ever. God will help you, and the seven spirits that are in front of his throne will help you." 
Revelation1:4 I am John. I am writing to the seven churches that are in the region of Asia. I pray that God will be very kind to you. I pray that he will give you peace in your minds. God is alive now. He has always been alive. He will continue to be alive for ever. God will help you, and the seven spirits that are in front of his throne will help you." 
Revelation1:5 Jesus Christ will also help you. He always speaks a true message. He is the first person who became alive again after death. He rules the kings of the earth. Jesus loves us and he died for us. That is how he made us free. Because of Jesus, God will not punish us for the bad things that we have done." 
Revelation1:6 Jesus has brought us into his family, so that we belong to God's kingdom. He has made us priests, so that we serve his God and Father. So we praise Jesus Christ! He will always be very great! He has power for all time. Amen." 
Revelation1:7 Look! He will come on the clouds! At that time, everyone will see him! Even the people who pushed a spear into his body will see him. People from all the nations on earth will be sad when they see him. Yes, it is true! Amen." 
Revelation1:8 The Lord God says, ‘I caused all things to begin and I will cause the end of all things. I have all power and authority. I am alive. I have always been alive. I will continue to be alive for ever.’" 
Revelation1:9 I am John. I am a believer, as you are. Because we belong to Jesus' kingdom, we are suffering. So we all need to be strong and patient, as Jesus helps us. The Roman leaders sent me as a prisoner to Patmos island because I taught God's message. I told people the true message about Jesus." 
Revelation1:9 I am John. I am a believer, as you are. Because we belong to Jesus' kingdom, we are suffering. So we all need to be strong and patient, as Jesus helps us. The Roman leaders sent me as a prisoner to Patmos island because I taught God's message. I told people the true message about Jesus." 
Revelation1:10 On the Lord's day, God's Spirit caused me to see and to hear things. I heard a voice speak behind me. The sound was as loud as a trumpet." 
Revelation1:11 The voice said, ‘When you see these things, write them in a book. Then you must send the book to the seven churches in these cities: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, Laodicea.’" 
Revelation1:12 I turned round to see who was speaking to me. When I turned, I saw seven gold lampstands with their lights." 
Revelation1:13 In the middle of the lights, I saw someone like a son of man. He was wearing long clothes that reached down to his feet. He wore a gold belt around the top part of his body." 
Revelation1:14 His head and his hair were white like sheep's hair. They were very white, like snow. His eyes were like fires that were burning brightly." 
Revelation1:15 His feet shone like a metal that shines brightly in a very hot fire. When he spoke, his voice was very loud. It was like the sound of water that pours along a river very quickly." 
Revelation1:16 He held seven stars in his right hand. A sword with two sharp edges came out of his mouth. His face was like the sun when it shines very brightly. 
Revelation1:17 When I saw him, I fell down at his feet like a dead person. Then he put his right hand on me, and he said to me, ‘Do not be afraid! I am the one who is the first and also the last." 
Revelation1:18 I am the one who always lives. I died once. But look! Now I am alive and I will be alive for ever. I have authority over death and over the place for dead people. 
Revelation1:19 So write down the things that you have seen. Write about what you see that is happening now. Also write about the things that will happen later. 
Revelation1:20 You saw seven stars that I held in my right hand. You saw seven lights in their gold lampstands. Now I will tell you what they mean. The seven stars show what the angels of the seven churches are like. The seven lights in their lampstands show what the seven churches themselves are like.’ 
Revelation2:1 ‘Now write this to the angel of the church at Ephesus: “This is the message to you from the one who holds the seven stars. He holds them carefully in his right hand. He walks among the seven gold lampstands. 
Revelation2:2 I know everything that you do. You have worked much for me. You have continued to work patiently. I know that you do not accept bad people as your friends. Some of these bad people say that they are apostles of Jesus. You have thought carefully about what they teach people. And you have discovered that it is not true. 
Revelation2:3 You have been patient and strong in times of trouble. You have continued to serve me because you believe in me. You have not stopped when you become tired. 
Revelation2:4 But I have something to say against you. You loved me very much when you first believed in me. You do not love me as much now. 
Revelation2:5 Think carefully about this! You do not now live in the way you did at the beginning. So you must change the way you live. Do again the good things that you did at the beginning. If you do not change the way you live, I will come to punish you. I will take away your lampstand from its place." 
Revelation2:6 But this is something that you do well: you hate the bad things that the Nicolaitans are doing. I also hate what they do. 
Revelation2:7 God's Spirit is now speaking to people in the churches. You should recognize that the Spirit is speaking. Everyone who knows that should listen to what he says. I will let everyone who wins against Satan eat my fruit. This fruit is from the tree that gives people true life. And this tree grows in God's own garden.” ’ 
Revelation2:8 ‘Write this to the angel of the church at Smyrna: “This is the message to you from the one who is the first and the last. He was dead, but he became alive again." 
Revelation2:9 I know that bad people are making you suffer. I also know that you are poor. But really, you are rich. Some people say that they are Jews, but they tell lies about you. So they cannot be my true people. Instead, they belong to a group of Satan's people." 
Revelation2:10 I know that trouble will soon come to you. But do not be afraid. Listen! The devil will cause some of you to go to prison. He wants to see whether you will continue to believe in me. As a result, you will suffer for ten days. But continue to trust me, even if you have to die. Then I will give you a gift, which is life with me for ever. That will be like a crown that they give to the winner of a race." 
Revelation2:11 God's Spirit is speaking to you in the churches. You should understand what the Spirit is saying to you. You have ears, so listen carefully! The second death will not hurt anyone who wins against Satan.” ’" 
Revelation2:12 ‘Write this to the angel of the church at Pergamum: “This is the message to you from the one who has the sharp sword with two edges. 
Revelation2:13 I know where you live. It is the place where Satan sits on his throne as king. But you still continue to trust me. You remember Antipas who spoke a clear message about me. Because of that, some people in your city killed him. You saw what happened to him, but you continued to believe in me. You still serve me, even there where Satan lives." 
Revelation2:14 But I have a few things to say against you. Some people among you agree with what Balaam taught long ago. He taught Balak to do a bad thing against God's people. Balak caused the Israelites to do wrong things. As a result, they ate food that people had given to idols. They also had sex with people who were not their husbands or wives." 
Revelation2:15 Also, some people among you do the bad things that the Nicolaitans teach." 
Revelation2:16 So you must stop doing these bad things. If you do not change how you live, I will quickly come to punish you. I will fight against those bad people with my sharp sword that comes out of my mouth." 
Revelation2:17 God's Spirit is speaking to you in the churches. You should understand what the Spirit is saying to you. You have ears, so listen carefully! To everyone who wins against Satan I will give some of my special food called manna. I will also give each of them a white stone. I will write a new name on that stone. Nobody will know that name except the person who receives it.” ’" 
Revelation2:18 ‘Write this to the angel of the church at Thyatira: “This is the message to you from the Son of God. He has eyes that burn brightly like flames of fire. His feet shine like bright metal. 
Revelation2:19 I know everything that you do. I know that you have great love. I know that you believe in me. I know that you continue to serve me well. You are patient and strong. You do these good things now more than you did at the beginning. 
Revelation2:20 But I have something to say against you. You let that woman Jezebel teach you. She says that she is a prophet from God. But she leads my servants into bad ways. She teaches them to have sex in wrong ways. And she teaches them to eat food that people have given to idols. 
Revelation2:21 I have given her time to stop doing these bad things. But she refuses to change how she lives. She does not stop having sex with other men. 
Revelation2:22 Listen to this! I will cause her to suffer on her bed, so that she cannot get up. Those who join her in her sins will also suffer very much, unless they change the way they live." 
Revelation2:23 I will send a terrible illness to kill those who obey her. Then all the people in the churches will know that I look deep inside them. I know what you really want. I know what you really think. I will give each of you what is right for you, as a result of what you have done." 
Revelation2:24 But I say this to you other people in Thyatira. You have not agreed with what Jezebel taught. You have not learned what they call ‘Satan's deep secrets’. So I say this to you: I will not tell you to obey any other difficult rules. 
Revelation2:25 But continue to obey my message that you have already received. Believe in me until I come. 
Revelation2:26 Continue to obey me until the end and win the fight against Satan. If anyone does that, I will give him authority to rule over the nations of the world." 
Revelation2:27 That person will rule the nations with strong authority. He will destroy them, like someone who breaks clay pots into many pieces." 
Revelation2:28 He will have the same authority that I received from my Father. I will also give him the morning star. 
Revelation2:29 God's Spirit is speaking to you in the churches. You should understand what the Spirit is saying to you. You have ears, so listen carefully!” ’" 
Revelation3:1 ‘Write this to the angel of the church at Sardis: “This is the message to you from the one who holds the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know everything that you do. I know that people praise you. They think that you are alive. But that is not true, because really you are dead in your spirits." 
Revelation3:2 Wake up! You must become strong again. Do not let the little bit of life that you have completely disappear! I know that there are still more things for you to do to please my Father God. 
Revelation3:3 So remember God's message that you have heard. Obey what God has said. Turn away from the wrong things that you do. Change the way that you live. If you do not wake up, I will come to punish you. I will come secretly, like someone who robs people. So you will not know what time I will come to you." 
Revelation3:4 But you have a few people among you in Sardis who have not done these bad things. They are like people who have kept their clothes clean. They will walk with me and they will wear white clothes. They are good people and it is right for them to wear these white clothes. 
Revelation3:5 Everyone who wins against Satan will wear white clothes like they do. I will never remove their names from God's book of life. I will say clearly to my Father and his angels that those people belong to me. 
Revelation3:6 God's Spirit is speaking to you in the churches. You should understand what the Spirit is saying to you. You have ears, so listen carefully!” ’" 
Revelation3:7 ‘Write this to the angel of the church at Philadelphia: “This is my message to you. I am the one who is completely good, the true God. I have King David's key in my hand. When I open a door, nobody can shut it. And when I shut a door, nobody can open it." 
Revelation3:8 I know everything that you do. Look! I have opened a door that is in front of you. Nobody can shut that door. I know that you are not very strong. But you have obeyed what I told you. You have continued to believe in me. 
Revelation3:9 Some people there say that they are Jews. But that is not true. They are telling lies. Instead, they belong to a group of Satan's people. I will cause those people to bend down low in front of you to give you honour. Then they will understand that I love you." 
Revelation3:10 I have told you to be patient in this difficult time. You have obeyed what I told you. Because of that, I will keep you safe from the time of great trouble that will come. This trouble will come to everyone who lives in the world. It will show me what each person is really like." 
Revelation3:11 I will come soon. Continue to obey my message that you already know. Then nobody can take away your crown which is God's gift to you. 
Revelation3:12 Everyone who wins against Satan will be safe in God's house. I will make them like a strong pillar in the temple of my God. They will never leave that place again. I will write on them the name of my God and the name of his city. The name of that city is the new Jerusalem. It will come down from heaven. My God will send it down to the earth. I will also write my new name on those people. 
Revelation3:13 God's Spirit is speaking to you in the churches. You should understand what the Spirit is saying to you. You have ears, so listen carefully!” ’" 
Revelation3:14 ‘Write this to the angel of the church at Laodicea: “This is my message to you. I am the one whose name is ‘ Amen ’. I faithfully tell people God's true message. Everything that God has created starts with me. 
Revelation3:15 I know everything that you do. I know that you are neither cold nor hot. It would be better if you were either cold or hot. 
Revelation3:16 But you are only warm. Because you are neither cold nor hot, I am ready to throw you away completely." 
Revelation3:17 You say, ‘I am rich. God has helped me to have many things. I do not need anything more.’ But you do not know how very poor you are really! You are like people who cannot see. You are like people who are without clothes. Really, other people should feel very sorry for you." 
Revelation3:18 So I tell you that you should buy gold from me. With my gold, you would be really rich. My gold is the best, because fire has made it pure. You should also buy white clothes from me to dress yourselves. Then you will not be ashamed because you have no clothes. You should also buy medicine from me to put on your eyes. Then you will be able to see." 
Revelation3:19 I help everyone that I love. When they have done wrong things, I tell them, ‘You have done a wrong thing.’ I show them the right thing that they should do. So be serious about how you live. Stop doing wrong things and turn to me." 
Revelation3:20 Look! I am standing at the door of your house. I am knocking on your door. When you hear my voice, you should open the door. Then I will come in. We will eat a meal together as friends." 
Revelation3:21 Everyone who wins against Satan will come to sit with me on my throne where I rule. I won against my enemies. Then I sat down with my Father on his throne. I will give you the same authority. 
Revelation3:22 God's Spirit is speaking to you in the churches. You should understand what the Spirit is saying to you. You have ears, so listen carefully!” ’" 
Revelation4:1 After this, I looked. There in front of me was an open door in heaven. I heard the same voice that I had heard before. It spoke like the sound of a trumpet. It said to me, ‘Come up here. I will show you the things that must happen after this.’" 
Revelation4:2 Immediately God's Spirit caused me to see and to hear more things. I saw a throne in heaven, with someone sitting on it." 
Revelation4:3 The person who sat there shone with bright red and white light, like jewels called jasper and ruby. Around the throne there was a rainbow that shone with bright green light like an emerald jewel." 
Revelation4:4 All around the throne there were 24 other thrones. 24 leaders were sitting on these thrones. They were wearing white clothes and they had gold crowns on their heads. 
Revelation4:5 A storm with bright lightning came from the throne. There was the loud noise of thunder. In front of the throne there were seven lights of fire burning brightly. These lights are the seven spirits of God. 
Revelation4:6 Also in front of the throne there was something like a sea of glass that shone with light. In the middle, around the throne, there were four other beings that were alive. They had eyes all over them, on their fronts and on their backs." 
Revelation4:7 The first of these beings was like a lion. The second being was like an ox. The third being had a face like a man's face. And the fourth being was like an eagle that was flying. 
Revelation4:8 Each of these four beings had six wings. They had eyes all over them, even under their wings. All day and all night they never stop saying: ‘The Lord God has all power and authority. He is completely good and holy. He has always lived. He lives now. He will continue to live for ever.’" 
Revelation4:9 God sits on the throne and he is alive for ever. The four beings that are alive worship him and they thank him. 
Revelation4:10 When they do this, the 24 leaders bend down to the ground. They also worship the Lord God, who sits on the throne and is alive for ever. They put their crowns in front of God's throne, and they praise him. They say:" 
Revelation4:11 ‘God, our Lord, you are very good! Everyone should give you honour and say how great and powerful you are! Everyone should worship you, because you created everything. You decided to make them and so you made them! That is why everything in the world is here.’" 
Revelation5:1 Then I looked at the one who was sitting on the throne. I saw that he held a scroll in his right hand. Words were written on both sides, the inside and the outside. Seven seals kept the scroll closed." 
Revelation5:2 Then I saw a powerful angel. He said with a loud voice, ‘Who is so good that they can break the seals? Who can open the scroll?’" 
Revelation5:3 But nobody in heaven could open the scroll and look inside it. Neither could anyone on the earth or anyone under the earth open it. 
Revelation5:4 I wept loudly because there was nobody who was good enough. Nobody was so good that they could open the scroll. Nobody could look inside it. 
Revelation5:5 Then one of the leaders said to me, ‘Do not weep! Look! There is someone who can break the seven seals and then open the scroll. His name is the Lion from Judah's tribe. He is called the Root of King David. He has won over all his enemies.’" 
Revelation5:6 Then I saw a Lamb. He was standing in the middle of the throne. The four beings that are alive and the leaders were around him. The Lamb appeared to be like a lamb that someone had killed. He had seven horns and seven eyes. His eyes are the seven spirits of God, that God has sent into all parts of the world." 
Revelation5:7 The Lamb came and he took the scroll. He took it from the right hand of the one who was sitting on the throne. 
Revelation5:8 When he had taken the scroll, the four beings and the 24 leaders fell down to the ground in front of the Lamb. They worshipped him. Each leader had a harp to make music. They were also holding gold bowls which were full of incense. That nice smell shows what it is like when God's people pray to him." 
Revelation5:9 The beings that are alive and the leaders sang a new song. They sang: ‘You are so good! You are good enough to take the scroll. You can break its seals and open it. You can do this because people killed you. When you died, you bought people for God with your blood. You bought them from every tribe, from every language and every nation." 
Revelation5:10 You have caused them to belong to the kingdom of our God. You have made them priests, so that they serve God. And they will rule on the earth.’" 
Revelation5:11 Then I looked again, and I heard the voices of many angels. There were thousands and millions of them. They were standing around the throne, with the beings that are alive and the leaders." 
Revelation5:12 They all sang with loud voices: ‘The Lamb that people killed is completely good! He has all authority, and all things belong to him. He is wise and powerful. Everyone must agree that he is great! Everyone must praise him and worship him!’" 
Revelation5:13 Then I heard the voices of everything that is alive. That was everything in heaven and everything on the earth, and everything under the earth and everything in the sea. They were singing: ‘We praise the one who sits on the throne. We praise the one who is the Lamb. We say that they are great! We worship them! They have power to rule for ever!’" 
Revelation5:14 The four beings that are alive agreed. They said, ‘Yes, this is true.’ The leaders fell down and they worshipped God and the Lamb." 
Revelation6:1 Then I watched while the Lamb opened one of the seven seals on the scroll. I heard one of the four beings say, ‘Come!’ It spoke very loudly with a voice like thunder." 
Revelation6:2 I looked, and I saw a white horse. The person who was riding the horse held a bow. Someone gave him a crown. He had fought against many people and he had won. Now he rode out on his horse to win against many more people." 
Revelation6:3 Then the Lamb opened the second seal. I heard another of the beings say, ‘Come!’" 
Revelation6:4 Then another horse came out. This horse was bright red, like fire. The person who was riding the horse had authority. He could take peace away from the earth, so that people killed each other. Someone gave him a large sword." 
Revelation6:5 Then the Lamb opened the third seal. I heard the next being say, ‘Come!’ I looked, and I saw a black horse. The person who was riding the horse held something in his hand. He used it to weigh things." 
Revelation6:6 I heard a sound like a voice that spoke among the four beings. The voice said, ‘A litre of wheat is worth one day's work. And three litres of barley is also worth one day's work. But do not destroy the olive oil and the wine.’" 
Revelation6:7 Then the Lamb opened the fourth seal. I heard the last being say, ‘Come!’" 
Revelation6:8 I looked, and I saw a grey horse. The name of the person who was riding the horse was Death. Hades, the place for dead people, was following near to him. They had authority to kill people in a quarter of the earth. They could kill people in different ways. They could kill them in wars. They could cause people to die because there was no food. They could cause people to become very ill so that they died. They could also cause wild animals to kill people." 
Revelation6:9 Then the Lamb opened the fifth seal. I saw an altar where people offered gifts to God. I saw the souls of some of God's people under the altar. These people had died because they had believed God's message. They had continued to speak the true message about Jesus Christ. That is why people had killed them. 
Revelation6:10 These believers called out loudly, ‘ Lord, you have all authority. You are completely good. You always do what is right. When will you decide to judge the people who live on the earth? Do not wait! You should quickly punish the people who killed us!’" 
Revelation6:11 Then each believer received white clothes. God told them to wait for a short time more. They must wait until other believers on earth also died. These believers are also servants of God. God will wait until people kill those believers too. Then the number of them will be complete. 
Revelation6:12 I watched again. I saw the Lamb open the sixth seal. Then the ground shook with a great earthquake. The sun became black like thick black cloth. The whole moon became red like blood. 
Revelation6:13 The stars in the sky fell to the earth. They fell like fruits fall from a tree when a strong wind blows. 
Revelation6:14 The sky divided into two parts. It rolled up like a scroll of paper. Every mountain and every island moved away from its place. 
Revelation6:15 Then everyone on the earth hid themselves. They went to the mountains and they hid among the rocks and in holes in the rocks. Everyone tried to hide, even the kings and the rulers. The soldiers' leaders, the rich people and other powerful people all went to hide. Everyone hid, whether they were slaves or free people." 
Revelation6:16 They shouted to the mountains and to the rocks, ‘Fall on us and cover us. Hide us, so that the one who sits on the throne cannot see us. Also hide us from the Lamb who is very angry with us." 
Revelation6:17 Their great day has come. They will punish us because they are so angry. Nobody will be able to escape.’ 
Revelation7:1 After this, I saw four angels. They were standing at the four corners of the earth. They were stopping the four winds of the earth. As a result, no wind could blow on the earth, or on the sea, or on any tree." 
Revelation7:2 Then I saw another angel who was coming up from the east. He was carrying the seal of the God who lives for ever. He shouted loudly to the four other angels. They had received authority to destroy the land and the sea. 
Revelation7:3 But he shouted to them, ‘Do not destroy the land or the sea or the trees yet. Wait until we put a seal on the heads of God's servants. God's seal on the front of their heads will keep them safe.’" 
Revelation7:4 Then I heard how many people received God's seal. The number of people was 144,000. They came from all the tribes of Israel's people:" 
Revelation7:5 12,000 from Judah's tribe, 12,000 from Reuben's tribe, 12,000 from Gad's tribe," 
Revelation7:6 12,000 from Asher's tribe, 12,000 from Naphtali's tribe, 12,000 from Manasseh's tribe," 
Revelation7:7 12,000 from Simeon's tribe, 12,000 from Levi's tribe, 12,000 from Issachar's tribe," 
Revelation7:8 12,000 from Zebulun's tribe, 12,000 from Joseph's tribe, 12,000 from Benjamin's tribe." 
Revelation7:9 After this, I looked again. I saw a very big crowd of people. There were so many people that nobody could count them. They came from every nation, from every tribe and from every language. They were standing in front of the throne and in front of the Lamb. They were wearing long white clothes and they held branches of palm trees in their hands." 
Revelation7:10 They shouted loudly: ‘We worship our God who sits on the throne. And we worship the Lamb. They have saved us from Satan's power.’ 
Revelation7:11 All the angels were standing around the throne, and around the leaders and the four beings. The angels all bent down so that their faces touched the ground. They worshipped God who was on the throne in front of them." 
Revelation7:12 They said: ‘This is true! We worship our God and we give him honour. He is completely wise. We thank him and we praise him. He has all power and authority for ever! Amen!’ 
Revelation7:13 Then one of the leaders asked me, ‘Who are these people in white clothes? Where did they come from?’" 
Revelation7:14 I replied, ‘You surely know who they are, sir.’ He said to me, ‘They are the people who have had a time of very bad trouble. Now they have come out of that. They have washed their clothes in the blood of the Lamb. Now their clothes are white and clean." 
Revelation7:15 Because of that, they are now standing in front of God's throne. They serve God in his house all the time, day and night. And God will keep them safe because he is with them." 
Revelation7:16 They will never again be hungry. They will never be thirsty. The sun will not burn them, nor will any other strong heat burn them." 
Revelation7:17 The Lamb is there with them, near to God's throne. He will take care of them, like a shepherd with his sheep. He will take them to drink fresh water that gives people life. They will no longer be sad. God will take away all the tears from their eyes.’" 
Revelation8:1 The Lamb opened the seventh seal. Then it became completely quiet in heaven for about half an hour. 
Revelation8:2 Then I saw the seven angels who stand in front of God. Someone gave them seven trumpets. 
Revelation8:3 Then another angel came. He stood at the altar where people offered gifts to God. He had a gold bowl to put incense in. He received a lot of incense and he burned it as a gift to God. It made a nice smell and it mixed with the prayers of God's people. The angel offered the incense and the prayers on the gold altar that was in front of God's throne. 
Revelation8:4 When he did that, the smoke from the incense went up in front of God. The prayers of God's people also went up to God." 
Revelation8:5 Then the angel took the gold bowl and he filled it with fire from the altar. Then he threw it all down onto the earth. There were loud noises and the sound of thunder. There was bright lightning, like a very bad storm. The earth shook with an earthquake." 
Revelation8:6 Then the seven angels with the seven trumpets prepared to make a noise with their trumpets. 
Revelation8:7 The first angel made a sound with his trumpet. Strong rain with stones of ice fell on the earth. The rain was mixed with fire and blood and it poured down. It burned a third of the earth. It destroyed a third of the trees and all the green grass. 
Revelation8:8 Then the second angel made a sound with his trumpet. I saw something like a very big mountain that was burning with fire. This mountain fell down into the sea. A third of the sea became blood. 
Revelation8:9 A third of the animals that lived in the sea died. It also destroyed a third of the ships on the sea. 
Revelation8:10 Then the third angel made a sound with his trumpet. I saw a very big star, which was burning with a bright light. It fell from the sky on a third of the rivers and the springs of water." 
Revelation8:11 The name of the star means ‘It tastes bad’. A third of the water on the earth became bad. Many people died because they drank that bad water. 
Revelation8:12 Then the fourth angel made a sound with his trumpet. A third of the sun became dark. A third of the moon and a third of the stars also became dark. There was no light for a third of the day and there was no light for a third of the night. 
Revelation8:13 Then I looked up. I saw an eagle that was flying high in the sky above me. I heard it say with a loud voice, ‘Great trouble! Great trouble! Yes, great trouble is coming to the people who live on the earth! Very bad things will happen when the other three angels make a sound with their trumpets!’" 
Revelation9:1 The fifth angel made a sound with his trumpet. Then I saw a star that had fallen down from the sky to the earth. Someone gave a key to that star. The key could open the entrance to the deep hole. 
Revelation9:2 When the star opened the entrance, smoke came up out of the hole. It was like the smoke from a very big hot fire. The smoke caused the sun and the sky to become dark." 
Revelation9:3 Then locusts came out of the smoke and they came down on the earth. They received power to cause great pain, like the power of scorpions." 
Revelation9:4 They knew that they must not do anything bad to the grass on the earth. They must not attack any plant or any tree. They could only attack people who did not have God's seal on the front of their heads. 
Revelation9:5 The locusts did not have authority to kill those people. But they could cause them very bad pain for five months. Their pain was like the great pain from a scorpion when it hurts someone. 
Revelation9:6 During that time of great pain, people will want to kill themselves. They will want to die, but they will not find any way to die." 
Revelation9:7 The locusts were like horses that were ready to fight in a war. They wore something on their heads that seemed to be gold crowns. Their faces looked like human faces. 
Revelation9:8 Their hair was like women's hair. Their teeth were like lions' teeth. 
Revelation9:9 They had shields over the front of their bodies, like shields made from iron. Their wings made a very loud noise. The sound was like many horses that are pulling chariots into a battle." 
Revelation9:10 They had poison in their tails, like scorpions. They had power to attack people with their tails and to cause them pain for five months." 
Revelation9:11 The king that ruled them was the angel of the deep hole. His name is ‘Abaddon’ in the Hebrew language. In the Greek language his name is ‘Apollyon’. 
Revelation9:12 The first great trouble has now finished. But after all these things, there are two more great troubles still to come." 
Revelation9:13 Then the sixth angel made a sound with his trumpet. I heard a voice that spoke to him from the four corners of the gold altar. This altar is near to God himself. 
Revelation9:14 The voice said to the sixth angel, ‘There are four angels at the great Euphrates River. Someone has tied them so that they cannot move. You must go and undo them!’" 
Revelation9:15 So the four angels now became free. God had kept them ready for that special time, for that hour, in that day, in that month, in that year. They were now ready to kill a third of people everywhere." 
Revelation9:16 I heard how many soldiers there were in their great army. There were 200 million soldiers who rode on horses. 
Revelation9:17 In my vision, I saw the soldiers and their horses. The soldiers had shields over the front of their bodies. The shields had many colours. They were bright red like fire, bright blue, and yellow like sulphur. The horses' heads looked like lions' heads. Fire, smoke and sulphur came out of their mouths." 
Revelation9:18 The fire, the smoke and the sulphur killed people. These three dangerous things killed a third of people everywhere." 
Revelation9:19 The horses had great power in their mouths and in their tails. Their tails were like snakes, with heads that could hurt people very much." 
Revelation9:20 But all the people that the fire, the smoke and the sulphur did not kill continued to do bad things. They did not change how they lived. They worshipped things that they had made for themselves. They worshipped demons and idols that they made from gold, silver, bronze, stone and wood. Those idols cannot see anything or hear anything. They cannot walk anywhere. But the people continued to worship them." 
Revelation9:21 They were not sorry that they murdered other people. They were not sorry that they used magic to hurt people. They continued to have sex with people in wrong ways. They continued to rob other people. They did not want to change the way that they lived. 
Revelation10:1 Then I saw another powerful angel. He was coming down from heaven. He had a cloud all around him, like his clothes. There was a rainbow above his head. His face was like the sun and his legs shone like fire." 
Revelation10:2 He had a little scroll in his hand and it was open. He put his right foot on the sea and he put his left foot on the land. 
Revelation10:3 Then he shouted with a loud voice, like a lion that roars. When he shouted, seven loud voices answered him. They were like the noise of thunder." 
Revelation10:4 When the seven voices of thunder spoke, I was ready to write. But I heard a voice that came from heaven. The voice said to me, ‘Keep secret what the seven voices of thunder have said. Do not write it down.’" 
Revelation10:5 Then I looked again at the angel who stood with one foot on the sea and his other foot on the land. He raised his right hand towards heaven. 
Revelation10:6 He made a strong promise by the name of God, who lives for ever. He created heaven, the earth and the sea, as well as everything that is in them. The angel said, ‘There is no more time to wait!" 
Revelation10:7 Now is the time when the seventh angel will make a sound with his trumpet. Then God will quickly finish what he wants to do. This has been a secret, but he told it long ago to the prophets who were his servants.’" 
Revelation10:8 Then I heard again the voice which spoke to me from heaven. He said, ‘Go to the angel who is standing with one foot on the sea and his other foot on the land. Go and take the scroll which is open in his hand.’" 
Revelation10:9 So I went to the angel. I asked him to give me the little scroll. He said to me, ‘Take the scroll and then eat it. It will be very sweet like honey in your mouth. But it will hurt your stomach like bad food.’" 
Revelation10:10 I took the little scroll from the angel's hand and I ate it. It was as sweet as honey in my mouth. But when I had eaten the scroll, it hurt my stomach." 
Revelation10:11 Then the voice said to me, ‘You must continue to tell God's message to people. You must say what will happen to people from everywhere in the world. They are the people of many nations, and people who speak many languages, and also their kings.’" 
Revelation11:1 Someone gave me a stick, like the sticks that people use to measure things. He told me, ‘Go and measure the size of the temple and the altar. Also count the number of people who worship God there." 
Revelation11:2 But do not measure the yard that is outside the temple. Do not measure it, because God has given that yard to Gentiles who do not believe in him. They will stamp all over God's own city for 42 months and they will destroy it." 
Revelation11:3 I will give authority to my two servants who speak my message clearly. They will tell people my messages for 1,260 days. They will wear sackcloth.’" 
Revelation11:4 These servants are the two olive trees and the two lampstands. They stand in front of God who is the Lord of the earth. 
Revelation11:5 If anyone tries to hurt them, fire comes out of the servants' mouths. This fire destroys their enemies. Anyone who wants to hurt the two servants must die in this way." 
Revelation11:6 These servants of God have authority to shut up the sky. Then there will be no rain during the time that they speak their messages from God. They also have authority to cause the water on earth to become blood. They can cause many different kinds of trouble to happen on the earth. They can do this as often as they want to. 
Revelation11:7 When these two servants of God have finished speaking God's messages, a wild animal will attack them. This is the animal that lives in the deep hole. It will come up out of the hole. It will be stronger than the two servants and it will kill them." 
Revelation11:8 Their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city where people killed their Lord on a cross. This city should be called Sodom or Egypt, because it is as bad as those places." 
Revelation11:9 People from everywhere in the world will look at the servants' dead bodies for three and a half days. Those are people from every nation, from every tribe and from every language. They will not agree to bury the bodies." 
Revelation11:10 The people who live on the earth will be very happy because the two servants of God are now dead. They will send gifts to each other because they are so happy. These two prophets of God had caused great trouble for them, but now the prophets have died." 
Revelation11:11 But after three and a half days, God breathed life into those dead bodies. They stood up. The people who saw them were very afraid." 
Revelation11:12 Then God's two servants heard a loud voice that came from heaven. The voice said, ‘Come up here.’ They went up to heaven in a cloud, while their enemies watched them." 
Revelation11:13 At the same time the ground shook with a strong earthquake. One in every ten buildings in the city fell down. 7,000 people died because of the earthquake. The people who were still alive became very afraid. They praised the God of heaven because of his great power." 
Revelation11:14 That is the second great trouble and it has now finished. But the third great trouble will come soon. 
Revelation11:15 The seventh angel made a sound with his trumpet. Then there was the sound of loud voices in heaven. They shouted: ‘Our Lord God and his Messiah now have all authority! The whole world has become their kingdom. God will rule as King for ever!’ 
Revelation11:16 The 24 leaders were sitting on their thrones in front of God. Now they threw themselves down on their faces and they worshipped God. 
Revelation11:17 They said: ‘We thank you, Lord God, because you have all authority! You live now and you have always lived. You have great power. Now you have begun to rule the whole world!" 
Revelation11:18 The nations of the world were very angry. But now it is time for you to be angry with them. Now you will judge all the people who have died. You will give good things to your servants, the prophets, and to all your people. You will bless everyone who respects your authority, whether they are important people or not. But you will destroy all those people who destroy the earth. The time has now come for all this to happen.’" 
Revelation11:19 Then the door of the temple in heaven became open. Inside it, I saw God's Covenant Box. There was a great storm with bright lightning and the loud noise of thunder. There was an earthquake and strong rain with stones of ice fell from the sky." 
Revelation12:1 A very wonderful thing then appeared in the sky. I saw a woman who was wearing the sun like her clothes. The moon was under her feet. A crown of 12 stars was on her head. 
Revelation12:2 She was pregnant. She screamed with pain as she tried to give birth to her baby. 
Revelation12:3 Then another wonderful thing appeared in the sky. It was a very big red dragon. It had seven heads and ten horns. There was a crown on each head. 
Revelation12:4 Its tail beat away a third of the stars from the sky. It threw them down on the earth. Then the dragon stood in front of the woman who would soon give birth to her baby. He was waiting there to eat her child as soon as he was born. 
Revelation12:5 The woman gave birth to a son. He was a man who would rule all the nations of the world with strong authority. Then someone quickly took her child away. He went up to God and to his throne. 
Revelation12:6 The woman ran away into the wilderness. God had prepared a special place to keep her safe there for 1,260 days." 
Revelation12:7 Then a war started in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. The dragon and his army of angels fought against Michael and his angels. 
Revelation12:8 But the dragon and his army were not strong enough to win the battle. They no longer had a place for themselves in heaven. 
Revelation12:9 Michael and his angels threw the great dragon out of heaven. The dragon is called the devil or Satan. He is the snake who has been there since long ago. He tells lies to deceive the whole world. They threw him down to the earth, together with all his angels." 
Revelation12:10 Then I heard a loud voice in heaven that said: ‘Now God has saved his people from Satan's power! God has shown his great power as King. His Messiah has authority to rule. Satan said bad things against our people. He never stopped telling our God that our brothers and sisters are guilty. But now God has thrown him out of heaven. 
Revelation12:11 Our brothers and sisters fought against him and they won. They could do this because of the death of the Lamb as a sacrifice. They continued to speak God's true message. They were also ready to die as God's servants. That is why they were able to win against Satan. 
Revelation12:12 So be happy, everyone who lives in heaven! But terrible trouble will happen to the earth and the sea. The devil has come down to you now and he is very angry. He knows that he has only a short time to hurt people.’" 
Revelation12:13 The dragon realized that they had thrown him down to the earth. So he chased after the woman who had given birth to the baby boy. He wanted to catch her. 
Revelation12:14 But the woman received the two wings of a very big eagle. Then she could fly to the place in the wilderness that God had prepared for her. In that place God would keep her safe from the big snake. God would take care of her there for a time, times and half a time." 
Revelation12:15 Then the dragon poured lots of water out of his mouth like a river. He wanted the river of water to carry the woman away. 
Revelation12:16 But a big hole opened in the ground. The river that poured from the dragon's mouth went down into the hole. That helped the woman to escape. 
Revelation12:17 As a result, the dragon was very angry with the woman. So he went away to fight a war against her other descendants. Those are the people who obey God's commands. They continue to trust Jesus and to speak his message." 
Revelation12:18 After that, the dragon stood on the shore of the sea." 
Revelation13:1 Then I saw a wild animal that was coming up out of the sea. It had ten horns and there was a crown on each horn. The animal also had seven heads. On each head there was a bad name that insulted God. 
Revelation13:2 The wild animal that I saw was like a leopard. But its feet were like a bear's feet and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. The dragon gave his own power and great authority to the wild animal so that it could rule as king. 
Revelation13:3 Someone had hurt one of the wild animal's heads with a bad wound. It seemed that it would soon die. But the wound in the animal's head had become well again. This surprised all the people who were living on the earth. As a result, they were ready to obey what the wild animal said." 
Revelation13:4 People worshipped the dragon because he had given his authority to the wild animal. They also worshipped the wild animal. They said, ‘Nobody is like this animal! Nobody is strong enough to fight against him!’" 
Revelation13:5 The wild animal received authority to rule people for 42 months. It could speak proud words and insult God. 
Revelation13:6 So it started to speak against God. It insulted God's name and the place where he lives, as well as the people who live there in heaven." 
Revelation13:7 It received power to fight a war against God's own people and to win against them. It received authority to rule over people from every nation, people from every tribe and people from every language." 
Revelation13:8 Nearly all the people who live on the earth will worship the wild animal. But those people whose names are in the Lamb's book of life will not worship it. The Lamb wrote the names of these believers in his book from the beginning of the world. He is the Lamb that people killed as a sacrifice. 
Revelation13:9 Everyone who can understand should listen carefully to these words: 
Revelation13:10 ‘If it is right for someone's enemy to catch him, that is what will happen. If it is right for someone's enemy to kill him with a sword, that is what will happen.’ This means that God's people must be patient and strong. They must continue to trust God." 
Revelation13:11 Then I saw a second wild animal. This one was coming up out of the ground. It had two horns like a lamb's horns. But it spoke like a dragon. 
Revelation13:12 It worked for the first wild animal and it used the authority of the first wild animal. It made all the people on earth worship the first wild animal. That first animal was the one that someone had hurt very much. It seemed that it would soon die but it had become well again. 
Revelation13:13 The second wild animal did great miracles. It even caused fire to come down from heaven to the earth, while people watched." 
Revelation13:14 It used the authority of the first wild animal to do many miracles. In that way, it deceived the people who lived on the earth. It told them to make an image of the first wild animal. This was the animal that was still alive after a sword had given it a bad wound." 
Revelation13:15 The second wild animal received power to give life to the image of the first wild animal. As a result, the image could speak. It said, ‘Anyone who refuses to worship me must die!’" 
Revelation13:16 The second wild animal also caused everyone to receive a mark. Everyone received a mark on their right hand or on the front of their head. This included important people and ordinary people, rich people and poor people, free people and slaves." 
Revelation13:17 Nobody could buy anything unless they had this mark on them. Nor could they sell anything. This mark shows the wild animal's name or the number of its name. 
Revelation13:18 You must think carefully so that you can understand this number. Anyone who is wise should try to understand what the wild animal's number means. It is a human number. The number is 666. 
Revelation14:1 Then I looked again and I saw the Lamb. He was standing on Mount Zion in Jerusalem. There were 144,000 people there with him. The Lamb's name and his Father's name were written on the front of those people's heads." 
Revelation14:2 Then I heard a loud sound which came from heaven. The noise was like water that pours along a river very fast. It was like the loud noise of thunder. The sound was like people who were making music with harps. 
Revelation14:3 The 144,000 people were singing a new song that they had learned. They sang it in front of the throne. They sang in front of the four beings that are alive and in front of the leaders. Only these 144,000 people could learn the new song. They are the people that God had saved from among the people who lived on the earth." 
Revelation14:4 These 144,000 people have kept themselves pure, as men who have never had sex with women. They follow the Lamb everywhere that he goes. God has saved them from among the people of the world and he has paid for their sins. They are the first people to become a gift to God and to the Lamb." 
Revelation14:5 They have not spoken any lies. They have done nothing wrong. 
Revelation14:6 Then I saw another angel who was flying high in the sky above me. He brought God's message of good news that is always true. He came to tell this news to everyone who lives on the earth. He would tell it to people from every nation, from every tribe and from every language." 
Revelation14:7 He said in a loud voice, ‘ Respect God and give him honour! Now it is time for him to judge people. He made the sky and the earth and the sea. He also made the springs of water. So worship him!’" 
Revelation14:8 A second angel followed the first one. He said, ‘God has destroyed Babylon! It is no longer a great city! It has caused people everywhere to do the same bad things as it enjoys. She is like a prostitute who makes men become drunk and have sex in a wrong way. She has caused them to turn away from God.’" 
Revelation14:9 A third angel followed the other two angels. He said in a loud voice, ‘If anyone worships the wild animal and its idol, God will punish them. If anyone receives that animal's mark on their head or on their hand, God will punish them." 
Revelation14:10 God will be very angry with all those people. They will be like people who must drink God's strong wine. When they drink wine from the cup of God's anger, they will have terrible pain. Fire and sulphur will burn them. God's angels and the Lamb will watch while God punishes them." 
Revelation14:11 The smoke will rise for ever while they burn. They will have no rest during the day or during the night. This will happen to everyone who worships the wild animal and its image. It will happen to everyone who receives the mark which shows its name.’ 
Revelation14:12 This means that God's people must continue to be patient and strong. They must continue to obey God's rules. They must continue to trust Jesus. 
Revelation14:13 Then I heard a voice that spoke from heaven. It said, ‘Write this: From this time, people who continue to believe in the Lord and then they die will be very happy.’ God's Spirit says, ‘Yes, they will rest from their work. God will not forget the good things that they have done.’" 
Revelation14:14 Then I looked, and I saw a white cloud in front of me. I saw someone who was like a son of man. He was sitting on the cloud. He had a gold crown on his head and a sharp knife in his hand." 
Revelation14:15 Then another angel came out from God's house in heaven. He shouted with a loud voice to the person who was sitting on the cloud. He told him, ‘Use your sharp knife and start to work. It is time to bring in the harvest. Cut down the plants and bring them in. The harvest on the earth is now ready.’" 
Revelation14:16 Then the person who sat on the cloud moved his sharp knife over the earth. He cut down the earth's plants and he brought in the harvest. 
Revelation14:17 Then another angel came out from God's house in heaven. He also had a sharp knife in his hand. 
Revelation14:18 Again, another angel came from the altar where people offered gifts to God. This angel had authority for the fire on the altar. He shouted with a loud voice to the angel who had the sharp knife. He told him, ‘Use your knife and cut the grapes off the earth's vine. The grapes are ready now to make wine.’" 
Revelation14:19 So the angel moved his sharp knife over the earth. He cut off the grapes which grew in the earth's vineyard. He threw the grapes into the winepress where God stamps on the grapes because he is very angry. 
Revelation14:20 The winepress was outside the city. When God stamped on the grapes, the juice that came out of the winepress was blood. The river of blood was very deep. It rose as high as horses' necks and it went as far as 300 kilometres." 
Revelation15:1 Then I saw another very wonderful thing in the sky. I saw seven angels with seven terrible troubles to hurt people. They are the final troubles. When they have finished, God will stop being angry." 
Revelation15:2 Then I saw what seemed to be a glass sea. Fire was mixed in it. I also saw people who were standing at the edge of the glass sea. Those people had fought against the wild animal and they had won. They had won against its image and the number that means its name. They had fought and they had won. God had given them harps. They held the harps to make music. 
Revelation15:3 Now they sang the song of God's servant, Moses, and the Lamb's song. They sang this: ‘ Lord God with all power, what you do is great and wonderful! Everything that you do is completely fair and honest. You are King of all nations of the world." 
Revelation15:4 Everyone will respect and obey you, Lord. They will say how great your name is, because you alone are holy. People from every nation have seen what you do. You always do what is right. So all people will come and stand in front of you, and they will worship you.’" 
Revelation15:5 After this I looked again. I saw that God's temple in heaven was open. That is God's home among his people, the tabernacle." 
Revelation15:6 The seven angels with the seven terrible troubles then came out of God's house. They were wearing clean, bright clothes that were made from linen. They had gold belts around the top part of their bodies." 
Revelation15:7 Then one of the four beings that were alive gave seven gold bowls to the seven angels. God had poured his anger into the bowls. He is the God who is alive for ever. 
Revelation15:8 Then God's house in heaven became full of smoke, which showed God's great glory and his power. As a result, nobody could go into God's house until the angels had finished sending the seven terrible troubles." 
Revelation16:1 Then I heard a loud voice speak from God's house in heaven. It said to the seven angels, ‘Take your seven bowls that are full of God's anger. Go and pour them out on the earth.’" 
Revelation16:2 The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land. As a result, very bad and painful sores appeared on people's skin. Everyone who had the wild animal's mark on them and who worshipped the animal's image had those sores." 
Revelation16:3 Then the second angel poured out his bowl on the sea. As a result, the sea became like the blood of a dead person. Everything that was living in the sea then died." 
Revelation16:4 Then the third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and on the springs of water. As a result, all the water became blood." 
Revelation16:5 Then I heard the voice of the angel who had authority over the waters. He said to God, ‘ Holy One, you live now and you have always lived. You are right in everything that you decide. Now you have judged these people." 
Revelation16:6 They have killed your holy people and your prophets. So now you have given them blood to drink. That is the punishment that they deserve.’ 
Revelation16:7 Then I heard a voice from the altar in heaven. It said, ‘Yes, Lord God, you have all power and authority. When you judge people, you do what is right and fair.’" 
Revelation16:8 Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun. God gave authority to the sun so that it burned people with fire. 
Revelation16:9 The strong heat burned people and it hurt them very much. As a result, they said bad things against God's name, because he had the power to cause these terrible troubles. But they refused to change how they lived. They refused to praise God for his great power." 
Revelation16:10 Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the wild animal. As a result, the whole kingdom that the wild animal ruled became dark. People were biting their tongues because of their great pain." 
Revelation16:11 They cursed the God of heaven because of their pain and because of the sores on their skin. But they did not stop doing bad things. 
Revelation16:12 Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great Euphrates River. As a result, the river became dry. This prepared a way for kings from the east to march across it." 
Revelation16:13 Then I saw three bad spirits that looked like frogs. One bad spirit came out of the dragon's mouth. Another one came out of the first wild animal's mouth. The third one came out of the false prophet's mouth. 
Revelation16:14 Those bad spirits are the spirits of demons. They had the power to do miracles. They went to all the rulers in the whole world, to bring them together to fight in a big war. That war will happen on the great day of God, who has all power and authority." 
Revelation16:15 The Lord says: ‘Listen! I will come secretly, like someone who robs people. If you continue to watch carefully, you will be happy. Keep your clothes with you all the time. Then, when I come, you will not be ashamed because you have no clothes.’" 
Revelation16:16 Then the bad spirits brought the rulers together to fight in the big war. They came to the place that is called Armageddon in the Hebrew language. 
Revelation16:17 Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air. A voice spoke loudly from the throne in God's house. The voice said, ‘Now it has happened!’" 
Revelation16:18 There was a great storm, with bright lightning and loud noises of thunder. The ground shook with a strong earthquake. The earthquake was stronger than anything that had happened since people first lived on the earth." 
Revelation16:19 As a result, the great city of Babylon broke into three parts. When the ground shook, it also destroyed the big cities of other nations in the world. God did not forget the evil things that the people of the great city of Babylon had done. So they had to drink wine from the cup of God's great anger." 
Revelation16:20 When the ground shook, every island in the sea disappeared. There were no more mountains anywhere." 
Revelation16:21 Strong rain with stones of ice fell from the sky. The stones hit people and caused them great pain. The weight of each stone was about 50 kilograms. The people cursed God because the strong rain and the stones of ice caused them to have such terrible pain. 
Revelation17:1 One of the seven angels that had the seven bowls came to me. He said, ‘Come with me. I will show you how God will punish the great prostitute. She sits at a place where there are many rivers." 
Revelation17:2 It is like the kings who rule on the earth have had sex with that bad woman. She has led the people who live on the earth to do bad things. They have become drunk from the strong wine that she has given to them.’ 
Revelation17:3 Again, God's Spirit caused me to see and to hear strange things. The angel carried me away to a wilderness. There I saw a woman who was sitting on a wild animal that was bright red. All over this wild animal, names were written that insulted God. The animal had seven heads and ten horns." 
Revelation17:4 The woman was wearing clothes that were made from expensive cloth. She also wore bright things that made her look beautiful. She shone with gold, valuable stones and pearls. She held a gold cup in her hand. The cup was full of the bad and disgusting things that she had caused people to do." 
Revelation17:5 A name was written on the front of her head. Only God knows what it means. It was: Powerful Babylon. Mother of all prostitutes. Mother of all the disgusting things on the earth. 
Revelation17:6 I saw that the woman was drunk. She was like someone who had drunk the blood of God's people. She had killed them because they had told other people about Jesus. When I saw her, I was very surprised." 
Revelation17:7 Then the angel asked me, ‘Why are you surprised? I will explain the secret of the woman to you. I will tell you the secret of the wild animal that she rides. The wild animal that you saw has seven heads and ten horns." 
Revelation17:8 This animal was once alive, but it is not alive now. Soon it will come up out of the deep hole again but then God will destroy it completely. All these things will surprise many people who live on the earth. Those are the people whose names are not written in God's book of life from the beginning of the world. They will be surprised to see the animal that was alive at one time. It is not alive now, but it will soon appear again." 
Revelation17:9 If you are wise, think carefully about this. The animal's seven heads are a picture of seven hills in the place where the woman sits." 
Revelation17:10 They are also a picture of seven kings. Five of these kings have already stopped ruling. Another king is ruling now. The last king has not yet come. When he does come, he must rule only for a short time." 
Revelation17:11 The wild animal is a picture of an eighth king. He was alive once, but he is not alive now. He belongs to the group of seven kings, but God will destroy him completely." 
Revelation17:12 The ten horns that you saw are a picture of ten more kings. They have not yet begun to rule anywhere. But they will receive authority to rule as kings for one hour. They will rule people together with the wild animal. 
Revelation17:13 They all have the same purpose. They will give their power to the wild animal. They will give him authority to rule people. 
Revelation17:14 Together they will fight a war against the Lamb. But the Lamb will win against them. He is the Lord above all lords. He is the King who rules over all kings. And God's people will be with him. They are the people that the Lamb has chosen to belong to him. They are the people who have continued to trust him.’ 
Revelation17:15 Then the angel said to me, ‘You saw the many rivers where the prostitute sits. Those rivers are a picture of people from many nations. They are crowds of people from different countries who speak many different languages." 
Revelation17:16 The wild animal and the ten horns that you saw will hate the prostitute. Those rulers will destroy her. They will remove all her clothes. They will eat the meat on her body. Then they will burn her with fire. 
Revelation17:17 They will decide to do that because God has given them those thoughts. So they will do what he wants. They will give to the wild animal their authority to rule as king. The animal will continue to rule until everything happens that God has said will happen. 
Revelation17:18 The bad woman that you saw is a picture of the great city. That city has power over all the kings who rule on the earth.’ 
Revelation18:1 After these things happened, I saw another angel. He was coming down from heaven. He had great authority. He was beautiful and he shone brightly. He gave light to the whole world." 
Revelation18:2 He shouted with a very loud voice: ‘God has destroyed the great city of Babylon! She has become a place where demons live. She is a home for every disgusting spirit. She is a home for every unclean bird. She is a home for every unclean and disgusting animal. 
Revelation18:3 She has been like a prostitute who makes men become drunk. Then she leads them to have sex in a wrong way. She has caused people from every nation to turn away from God. It is as if all the kings of the earth have had sex with that bad woman. All the traders of the earth have become rich, because she has bought things from them to enjoy a wicked life.’" 
Revelation18:4 Then I heard another voice which spoke from heaven. It said: ‘My people, leave the city! Come out! Do not do the bad things that the people of that city have done. Then you will not receive the terrible troubles that God sends to them." 
Revelation18:5 They have done very many bad things. Their sins have reached as high as heaven. God has remembered to punish them. 
Revelation18:6 Yes, punish the people of that city! Do to them the same things that they have done to others. Punish them with twice the bad things that they themselves have done. She caused people to drink pain from her cup. Now make her drink twice as much pain for herself!" 
Revelation18:7 She liked to receive honour. She bought expensive things to enjoy a wicked life. So now give her the trouble and pain that she deserves. She has said to herself, “I rule people like a queen. I do not live like a widow. I will never need to be sad.”" 
Revelation18:8 Because she speaks like that, she will receive many troubles in one single day. Her people will become very ill. They will be very sad. They will have no food to eat. Fire will destroy the city. The Lord God is powerful. So he will punish her with these troubles.’" 
Revelation18:9 When all that happens, the kings on the earth will be very sad. They enjoyed the bad things that people did in that city. They had many expensive things so that they were happy. Now they will see the smoke from the fire that burns the city. As a result, they will cry and they will weep." 
Revelation18:10 They will stand a long way from the city because they are afraid. They do not want to suffer in the same way. They will say, ‘ Terrible trouble has come to you, Babylon! Great city! Powerful city! It is very bad for you! In one single hour God has destroyed you!’" 
Revelation18:11 The traders of this world will also be very sad. They will weep because nobody will buy their things any more. 
Revelation18:12 They sold many expensive things like these: Things made from gold and silver. Valuable stones and pearls. Good linen and other kinds of expensive cloth that is red or purple. Things made from wood that has a nice smell. Many different things that are made from ivory. Many kinds of things that people had made from expensive wood, from different metals and from stone." 
Revelation18:13 Different kinds of spice and incense, like myrrh and frankincense. Wine, olive oil, expensive flour and wheat. Cows and sheep. Horses and chariots. Human slaves." 
Revelation18:14 The people who sold these things will say to the city, ‘You have now lost all the good things that you wanted so much. You have lost all those expensive things that made you beautiful. You will never have them again.’" 
Revelation18:15 The traders had become rich because of the city. But now they will stand a long way from the city because they are afraid. They do not want to suffer in the same way themselves. They will weep and they will be very sad. 
Revelation18:16 They will say, ‘Bad trouble has come to you, Babylon! Great city! It is very bad for you! You wore beautiful clothes that were made from good linen. You wore bright things that made you look beautiful. You shone with gold, valuable stones and pearls." 
Revelation18:17 But in one single hour God has destroyed all those valuable things.’ All the sailors and the people who travel on ships will also be sad. They include every ship's captain, and everyone who works on ships on the sea. They will stand a long way from the city." 
Revelation18:18 They will see the smoke from the fire that burns the city. Then they will shout, ‘There is no other city like this great city!’" 
Revelation18:19 They will throw dirt from the ground on their heads because they are so sad. They will weep and they will shout, ‘Bad trouble has come to you, Babylon! Great city! It is very bad for you! Everyone who had ships on the sea became rich because of you. You used your money to buy their expensive things. But in one single hour God has destroyed that city.’" 
Revelation18:20 Yes, you who live in heaven, be happy! Be happy because God has punished Babylon! God's people, his apostles and his prophets, be happy! God has punished the city because of what she did to you." 
Revelation18:21 Then a powerful angel picked up a very big, heavy stone. He threw it into the sea. He said, ‘God will throw you down, Babylon! You are a great city, but God will throw you down like this stone. Nobody will ever see you again!" 
Revelation18:22 Nobody will ever hear music in the city again. Nobody will sing there. Nobody will make music with harps, or with flutes, or with trumpets. There will never be workers who make things in the city. Nobody will ever hear the sound of people who make flour again." 
Revelation18:23 No light from people's lamps will ever shine in the city again. Nobody will ever hear the happy voices of a man and a woman when they marry. Your traders were the most powerful people on the earth. You used your magic to deceive people from all nations. 
Revelation18:24 Your people killed God's people and his prophets. Their blood lies on the ground in the city. The blood of everyone on earth that people have killed is also there. This shows that you are guilty of their murder.’ 
Revelation19:1 After these things, I heard a sound like the voices of a great crowd of people in heaven. They were shouting, ‘ Praise the Lord our God! He has saved us! He is very powerful! We say that he is great!" 
Revelation19:2 Everything that he decides is right and fair. He has punished that great prostitute. She led people on the earth to do wicked things. She murdered God's servants with her own hands. But now God has punished her as she deserves.’ 
Revelation19:3 Then the crowd of people in heaven shouted again, ‘Praise the Lord our God! The smoke from the fire that burns that city will go up for ever.’" 
Revelation19:4 The 24 leaders and the four beings that are alive then threw themselves down on the ground. They worshipped God, who was sitting on the throne. They said, ‘It is true! Praise the Lord God!’" 
Revelation19:5 Then a voice spoke from the throne. It said, ‘All of you who are God's servants, praise our God! All of you who respect God's power, worship him! Important people and ordinary people should worship him!’" 
Revelation19:6 Then I heard a sound like the noise of a very big crowd that was shouting. The sound was like the noise of water that pours quickly along a river. It was like the noise of loud thunder. The crowd of people shouted, ‘Praise the Lord our God! He rules with all power and authority!" 
Revelation19:7 We must shout with joy because we are so happy! We will say that God is great! The time has come for the Lamb's wedding party. His bride has prepared herself. 
Revelation19:8 God has given her linen clothes to wear that are bright and clean.’ These beautiful linen clothes are a picture of the good things that God's holy people have done. 
Revelation19:9 Then the angel said to me, ‘Write down this message: “There will be a special feast at the Lamb's wedding party. God has truly blessed the people that he has asked to come to that meal.” ’ The angel also said to me, ‘This is a true message from God.’" 
Revelation19:10 Then I bent down low at the angel's feet to worship him. But he said to me, ‘You must not do that! I am only a servant of God, the same as you are. I am a servant, like all believers who show clearly that they trust in Jesus. God is the one that you should worship! When God gave a message to his prophets, it was Jesus that they spoke about.’" 
Revelation19:11 I saw that heaven was now open. I saw a white horse there! The name of the man who was riding the horse was this: ‘A faithful, honest person’. He is always right when he judges people and when he goes to punish them in war." 
Revelation19:12 His eyes burn like bright flames of fire. Many crowns are on his head. He has a name that is written on him, but nobody knows that name except himself." 
Revelation19:13 He wears a long shirt with a lot of blood on it. His name is: ‘The Word of God’. 
Revelation19:14 Heaven's armies were following him. They were also riding on white horses. They were wearing linen clothes that were white and clean. 
Revelation19:15 A sharp sword was coming out of his mouth. He will use this sword to attack the people of all the nations of the world. Then he will rule them with strong authority. He will punish them like someone who stamps on grapes in a winepress. That will show God's great anger against them. He is the Almighty God. 
Revelation19:16 The man who rides on the white horse has a name that is written on his shirt. It is also written high on his leg. His name is: ‘The King who rules over all other kings. The Lord who rules over all lords’. 
Revelation19:17 Then I saw an angel who was standing in the sun. He shouted loudly to all the birds that were flying high in the sky, ‘Come here! Come together to eat the big meal that God has prepared." 
Revelation19:18 Eat the meat from the dead bodies of God's enemies! Come and eat the meat of kings, the meat of army captains and the meat of powerful men. Eat the meat of dead horses and the soldiers who ride them. Eat the meat of all kinds of people: slaves and free people, important people and ordinary people.’" 
Revelation19:19 Then I saw the wild animal and the kings of the earth and their armies. They had come together to fight a war. They were ready to fight a battle against the man who rode on the white horse and his army. 
Revelation19:20 But the rider and his army caught the wild animal. They also caught the false prophet who had done miracles to help the wild animal. He used those miracles to deceive the people who had the wild animal's mark on them. Those people worshipped his image. Now the rider and his army threw the wild animal and the false prophet into the lake of fire. They were still alive when they threw them into the lake that burns with sulphur. 
Revelation19:21 The rider of the white horse then killed all his other enemies. He killed them with the sword that came out of his mouth. So then all the birds ate the meat from the dead bodies until they were completely full. 
Revelation20:1 Then I saw an angel who was coming down from heaven. He was holding the key to the deep hole. He also held a great chain in his hand. 
Revelation20:2 He took hold of the dragon. That dragon is the devil and Satan. He is the snake who has lived since long ago. The angel tied up the dragon with the chain for 1,000 years." 
Revelation20:3 Then he threw the dragon into the deep hole. He closed the door to the deep hole, and he locked it with the key. He put a seal on the door. During that time, Satan could no longer deceive the people of all nations. But after the 1,000 years have finished, he must go free for a short time." 
Revelation20:4 Then I saw some thrones, and I saw people who were sitting on them. These people had received authority to judge other people. I also saw the souls of people who had died because they served Jesus. People had cut off their heads because they had told the truth about Jesus, and they had spoken God's message. These believers had not worshipped the wild animal or his image. They had not received the wild animal's mark on their heads or on their hands. Now they became alive again. They ruled as kings together with Christ for 1,000 years." 
Revelation20:5 This is the first time that God raises up dead people to become alive again. But all the other dead people did not become alive again until the 1,000 years had finished." 
Revelation20:6 God has blessed those people that he raises up that first time. They belong to God as his holy people. The second death has no power over them. Instead, they will be priests who serve God and Christ. They will rule as kings with him for 1,000 years." 
Revelation20:7 When the 1,000 years have finished, God will let Satan go free out of his prison." 
Revelation20:8 Satan will then go and deceive people in nations everywhere in the world. He will make them believe him. Those nations are God's enemies, Gog and Magog. Satan will bring them together to fight a war against God's people. Satan's army has many people, as much as the sand on the shore of the sea." 
Revelation20:9 I saw them as they marched over the whole earth. They arrived at the city which God loves. That is where God's people had made their camp. Satan's army made their camp all around the city. Then fire came down from heaven and it destroyed them completely. 
Revelation20:10 The devil had deceived those people. I saw God throw him into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur. That is the lake where he had already thrown the wild animal and the false prophet. They will have a lot of pain in that place, all day and all night for ever." 
Revelation20:11 Then I saw a great white throne. I saw that God was sitting on it. The earth and the sky rushed away from the place where he sat. There was no longer any place for them. 
Revelation20:12 I also saw the people who had died, important people and ordinary people. They were standing in front of the great throne. Then someone opened books to see what was in them. God had written in them all the things that the people had done. Then someone opened another book which is God's book of life. God judged the people who had died. He looked in the books to see what they had done, and he decided what was right." 
Revelation20:13 The sea brought up all the dead people who were in it. Death and Hades, the place for dead people, brought up all the dead people who were there too. God judged each person. God saw what they had done, and he decided what was right." 
Revelation20:14 Then God threw Death and Hades into the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the second death for people. 
Revelation20:15 If anyone's name was not written in the book of life, God threw that person into the lake of fire." 
Revelation21:1 Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth had gone away. The sea also was not there any more. 
Revelation21:2 I saw God's own holy city, called the new Jerusalem. It was coming down out of heaven from God. It was very beautiful, like a bride who is wearing beautiful clothes, ready to meet her husband." 
Revelation21:3 I heard a voice that spoke loudly from the throne. It said, ‘Look! God's home is now among people! God will live together with them. They will be his people. God himself will be with them and he will be their God." 
Revelation21:4 God will take away all the tears from their eyes. Nobody will ever die again. Nobody will be sad again. Nobody will ever cry. Nobody will have pain again. Everything that made people sad has now gone. That old world has completely gone away.’ 
Revelation21:5 God, who was sitting on the throne, said, ‘I am making everything new!’ Then he said to me, ‘Write this down, because these words are true. Everyone should believe them.’" 
Revelation21:6 He also said to me, ‘Everything is now done! I caused all things to begin and I will cause the end of all things. I am the beginning and the end. If anyone is thirsty, I will give them water to drink. Nobody will have to pay anything for it. That water comes from a spring of water that gives life to people." 
Revelation21:7 Everyone who wins against Satan will receive all these things from me. I will be their God and they will be my children. 
Revelation21:8 But I will punish other people. They include: people who are afraid of trouble; people who do not believe in Jesus; people who do disgusting things; people who murder other people; people who have sex in a wrong way; people who use magic to hurt people; people who worship idols; people who tell lies. All these people will go into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur. That is the second death for people.’ 
Revelation21:9 Then one of the seven angels with the seven bowls that were full of the seven final troubles came to me. He said, ‘Come with me! I will show you the bride who will become the Lamb's wife.’" 
Revelation21:10 Then God's Spirit caused me to see and to hear strange things. The angel carried me away to a great mountain that was very high. He showed me God's own holy city, Jerusalem. The city was coming down out of heaven from God." 
Revelation21:11 It had the bright glory of God. It shone like a valuable jewel that is called jasper. It shone like clean glass. 
Revelation21:12 The city had a very big, high wall around it. The wall had 12 gates in it. 12 angels stood at the 12 gates. The names of the 12 tribes of Israel's people were written on the 12 gates." 
Revelation21:13 There were three gates on each side of the city: three gates were on the east side, three gates were on the north side, three gates were on the south side, three gates were on the west side." 
Revelation21:14 The city's wall has a foundation of 12 strong stones. The names of the Lamb's 12 apostles were written on those 12 stones. 
Revelation21:15 The angel who talked to me had a long gold stick. He used it to measure things. So he could measure the city and its gates and its walls. 
Revelation21:16 The shape of the city was a square. It was as long as it was wide. The angel measured the city with his stick. It was 12,000 stadia (2,400 kilometres) long. It was as wide and as high as it was long." 
Revelation21:17 He also measured its wall. The size of the wall was 144 cubits (65 metres). That is the way that humans measure things. The angel also measured in the same way. 
Revelation21:18 The wall was made from the jewel that is called jasper. The city was made from pure gold. The light shone through it, as light shines through clean glass." 
Revelation21:19 The strong stones that were the foundation of the city's wall were very beautiful. They had valuable jewels in them that were different colours. Each great stone had its own special jewel. They were called: 1. Jasper; 2. Sapphire; 3. Agate; 4. Emerald; 
Revelation21:20 5. Onyx; 6. Carnelian; 7. Quartz; 8. Beryl; 9. Topaz; 10. Chrysoprase; 11. Jacinth; 12. Amethyst. 
Revelation21:21 The 12 gates were 12 pearls. They had used a single pearl to make each gate. The city's biggest street was made from pure gold. The light shone through it, as light shines through clean glass." 
Revelation21:22 When I looked, I saw that there was no temple in the city. The Lord God, who has all power and authority, is there himself. The Lamb is also there. So people do not need a special place to worship him there." 
Revelation21:23 Also, the city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it. God's bright glory gives light to the city. The Lamb is the lamp that gives it light." 
Revelation21:24 People from all the world's nations will live in the city's light. The earth's rulers will bring all their valuable things into it. 
Revelation21:25 Nobody will ever shut the city's gates at the end of the day. It will always be day and there will be no night there. 
Revelation21:26 People from all the world's nations will bring their beautiful and valuable things into the city. 
Revelation21:27 But nothing that is bad or unclean will ever go in there. Nobody who does anything that God hates will go into the city. Nobody who tells lies will go in. Only those people with their names written in the Lamb's book of life can go in there. 
Revelation22:1 Then the angel showed me a river. It had water that gives true life to people. The water shone like clean glass. The river of water started from the throne where God and the Lamb sit to rule. It ran from the throne 
Revelation22:2 along the middle of the city's biggest street. I saw a tree that was growing on each side of the river. It is the tree that gives people true life. It has 12 different kinds of fruit, a new fruit every month. The tree's leaves are like medicine. They make people of every nation well again." 
Revelation22:3 Nothing that is in the city will be under a curse. The throne where God and the Lamb sit to rule will be in the city. God's servants will worship him there. 
Revelation22:4 They will see his face. His name will be on the front of their heads. 
Revelation22:5 There will be no more night, so nobody will need a lamp to make light. They will not need light from the sun, because the Lord God will shine on them. They will rule as kings for ever." 
Revelation22:6 Then the angel said to me, ‘All these words are true and everyone should believe them. The Lord God uses his prophets to speak his messages. He has sent his angel to speak to his servants. The angel will now show them what must happen soon.’" 
Revelation22:7 Jesus says, ‘Listen! I will come soon. God will bless everyone who obeys the words of the prophecy that is in this book.’" 
Revelation22:8 I am John. I myself heard these things and I saw them. When I had heard them and I had seen them, I bent down low at the angel's feet. I wanted to worship him because he had shown these things to me." 
Revelation22:8 I am John. I myself heard these things and I saw them. When I had heard them and I had seen them, I bent down low at the angel's feet. I wanted to worship him because he had shown these things to me." 
Revelation22:9 But the angel said to me, ‘You must not do that! I am only a servant of God, the same as you are. I serve God like all God's prophets who are believers like you. I serve God like everyone who obeys God's message that is written in this book. God is the one that you must worship!’" 
Revelation22:10 Then he said to me, ‘Do not hide the words of God's prophecy that are written in this book. The time is near when these things will happen." 
Revelation22:11 Let everybody continue to live as they choose. Everyone who does wrong things will continue to do wrong things. Everyone who is disgusting will continue to be disgusting. Everyone who does right things will continue to do right things. Everyone who belongs to God will continue to be holy.’ 
Revelation22:12 Jesus says, ‘Listen! I will come soon! I know what each person has done. I will give each one what they deserve. I am ready to do that." 
Revelation22:13 I caused all things to begin and I will cause the end of all things. I am the first and the last. I am the beginning and the end. 
Revelation22:14 Believers who keep themselves clean will be happy. They are like people who always wash their clothes. I will let them eat the fruit from the tree that gives people true life. I will let them go through the gates into the city. 
Revelation22:15 But other people must stay outside the city: wicked people; people who do magic; people who have sex in a wrong way; people who murder other people; people who worship idols; everyone who likes to tell lies and deceive people. 
Revelation22:16 I am Jesus. I have sent my angel to tell you this message. You must tell it to all the people in the churches. I am called the Root of King David. I am his descendant. I am the bright morning star.’ 
Revelation22:17 God's Spirit and the bride of Jesus say, ‘Come!’ Everyone who hears this should also say, ‘Come!’ Yes, anyone who is thirsty should come to Jesus. Then that person will receive from Jesus the water that gives life. Anyone who wants it may take it. They will not have to pay anything for it." 
Revelation22:18 Now John says this. I say clearly to everyone who hears the words of God's prophecy that are written in this book: If anyone adds any more words than are already in this book, God will punish them. The terrible troubles that this book describes will happen to them." 
Revelation22:18 Now John says this. I say clearly to everyone who hears the words of God's prophecy that are written in this book: If anyone adds any more words than are already in this book, God will punish them. The terrible troubles that this book describes will happen to them." 
Revelation22:19 And if anyone takes away from the words that are in this book, God will punish them too. He will not let them eat the fruit from his tree that gives people true life. God will not let them live in his holy city either. This book describes all these things." 
Revelation22:20 It is Jesus who tells us that all these messages are true. He says, ‘Yes, I will come soon!’ Amen! We agree! Come, Lord Jesus!" 
