Genesis40:15 For I was in fact stolen from the land of the Hebrews, and even here I have done nothing that they should have put me into the pit.”" 
Genesis43:32 So they set the meal for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians." 
Exodus2:6 Then she opened it and saw the child. And behold, the boy was crying. And she had pity on him and said, “This is one of the Hebrews’ children.”" 
Exodus2:13 Then he went out the next day, and behold, two Hebrews were struggling with each other; and he said to the wicked one, “Why are you striking your companion?”" 
Exodus3:18 And they will listen to your voice; and you with the elders of Israel will come to the king of Egypt, and you all will say to him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. So now, please, let us go a three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to Yahweh our God.’" 
Exodus5:3 Then they said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please, let us go a three days’ journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to Yahweh our God, lest He confront us with pestilence or with the sword.”" 
Exodus7:16 And you shall say to him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, sent me to you, saying, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me in the wilderness. But behold, you have not listened until now.”" 
Exodus9:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Come to Pharaoh and speak to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus9:13 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh, and you shall say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus10:3 Then Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, ‘How long will you refuse to humble yourself before Me? Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
1Samuel4:6 Then the Philistines heard the noise of the shout and said, “What does the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?” Then they knew that the ark of Yahweh had come into the camp." 
1Samuel4:9 Be strong and become men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews, as they have been slaves to you; therefore, become men and fight.”" 
1Samuel13:3 And Jonathan struck the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear.”" 
1Samuel13:7 Also some of the Hebrews crossed the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. But as for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling." 
1Samuel13:19 Now no blacksmith could be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, “Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears.”" 
1Samuel14:11 So both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, “Behold, Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves.”" 
1Samuel14:21 Now the Hebrews who were with the Philistines previously, who went up with them all around in the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan." 
1Samuel29:3 Then the commanders of the Philistines said, “What are these Hebrews doing here?” And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him from the day he deserted to me to this day?”" 
2Kings16:6 At that time Rezin king of Aram restored Elath for Aram and cleared the Judeans out of Elath entirely; and the Arameans came to Elath and have lived there to this day. 
2Kings18:26 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah and Joah, said to Rabshakeh, “Speak now to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and do not speak with us in Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”" 
2Kings18:28 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in Judean, saying, “Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah36:11 Then Eliakim and Shebna and Joah said to Rabshakeh, “Speak now to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and do not speak with us in Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”" 
Isaiah36:13 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in Judean and said, “Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria." 
Matthew1:1 The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham:" 
Matthew1:2 Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac was the father of Jacob, and Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers." 
Matthew1:3 And Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez was the father of Hezron, and Hezron was the father of Ram." 
Matthew1:4 And Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon was the father of Salmon." 
Matthew1:5 And Salmon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed was the father of Jesse." 
Matthew1:6 And Jesse was the father of David the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah. 
Matthew1:7 And Solomon was the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam was the father of Abijah, and Abijah was the father of Asa." 
Matthew1:8 And Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat was the father of Joram, and Joram was the father of Uzziah." 
Matthew1:9 And Uzziah was the father of Jotham, and Jotham was the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz was the father of Hezekiah." 
Matthew1:10 And Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh was the father of Amon, and Amon was the father of Josiah." 
Matthew1:11 And Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon." 
Matthew1:12 And after the deportation to Babylon: Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel." 
Matthew1:13 And Zerubbabel was the father of Abihud, and Abihud was the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim was the father of Azor." 
Matthew1:14 And Azor was the father of Zadok, and Zadok was the father of Achim, and Achim was the father of Eliud." 
Matthew1:15 And Eliud was the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar was the father of Matthan, and Matthan was the father of Jacob." 
Matthew1:16 And Jacob was the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ." 
Matthew1:17 Therefore all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations." 
Matthew1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows: when His mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew1:19 And Joseph her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly." 
Matthew1:20 But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife; for the One who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit." 
Matthew1:21 And she will bear a Son; and you shall call His name Jesus, for He will save His people from their sins.”" 
Matthew1:22 Now all this took place in order that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet would be fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew1:23 “Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a Son, and they shall call His name Immanuel,” which translated means, “God with us.”" 
Matthew1:24 And Joseph got up from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife," 
Matthew1:25 but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a Son; and he called His name Jesus. 
Matthew2:1 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem, saying," 
Matthew2:1 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem, saying," 
Matthew2:2 “Where is He who has been born King of the Jews? For we saw His star in the east and have come to worship Him.” 
Matthew2:3 And when Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him." 
Matthew2:4 And gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he was inquiring of them where the Christ was to be born." 
Matthew2:5 And they said to him, “In Bethlehem of Judea; for this is what has been written by the prophet:" 
Matthew2:5 And they said to him, “In Bethlehem of Judea; for this is what has been written by the prophet:" 
Matthew2:6 ‘And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, Are by no means least among the leaders of Judah; For out of you shall come forth a Leader Who will shepherd My people Israel.’”" 
Matthew2:7 Then Herod secretly called the magi and carefully determined from them the time the star appeared. 
Matthew2:8 And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, “Go and search carefully for the Child; and when you have found Him, report to me, so that I too may come and worship Him.”" 
Matthew2:9 Now after hearing the king, they went their way; and behold, the star, which they had seen in the east, was going on before them until it came and stood over the place where the Child was." 
Matthew2:10 And when they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy." 
Matthew2:11 And after coming into the house they saw the Child with Mary His mother; and they fell to the ground and worshiped Him. Then, opening their treasures, they presented to Him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh." 
Matthew2:12 And having been warned in a dream not to return to Herod, the magi departed for their own country by another way." 
Matthew2:13 Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, “Get up! Take the Child and His mother and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you; for Herod is going to search for the Child to destroy Him.”" 
Matthew2:14 So Joseph got up and took the Child and His mother while it was still night, and departed for Egypt." 
Matthew2:15 And he remained there until the death of Herod, in order that what had been spoken by the Lord through the prophet would be fulfilled, saying, “Out of Egypt I called My Son.”" 
Matthew2:16 Then when Herod saw that he had been tricked by the magi, he became very enraged, and sent and slew all the male children who were in Bethlehem and all its vicinity, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had carefully determined from the magi." 
Matthew2:17 Then what had been spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew2:18 “A voice was heard in Ramah, Weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children; And she was refusing to be comforted, Because they were no more.”" 
Matthew2:19 But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying," 
Matthew2:20 “Get up, take the Child and His mother, and go into the land of Israel; for those who sought the Child’s life are dead.”" 
Matthew2:21 So Joseph got up, took the Child and His mother, and came into the land of Israel." 
Matthew2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Then after being warned by God in a dream, he departed for the district of Galilee," 
Matthew2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Then after being warned by God in a dream, he departed for the district of Galilee," 
Matthew2:23 and came and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken through the prophets would be fulfilled: “He shall be called a Nazarene.”" 
Matthew3:1 Now in those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying," 
Matthew3:1 Now in those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying," 
Matthew3:1 Now in those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying," 
Matthew3:2 “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”" 
Matthew3:3 For this is the one referred to by Isaiah the prophet, saying, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of the Lord, Make His paths straight!’”" 
Matthew3:4 Now John himself had a garment of camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist; and his food was locusts and wild honey. 
Matthew3:4 Now John himself had a garment of camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist; and his food was locusts and wild honey. 
Matthew3:5 Then Jerusalem was going out to him, and all Judea, and all the district around the Jordan;" 
Matthew3:5 Then Jerusalem was going out to him, and all Judea, and all the district around the Jordan;" 
Matthew3:6 and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, as they confessed their sins." 
Matthew3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for his baptism, he said to them, “You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?" 
Matthew3:8 Therefore bear fruit in keeping with repentance; 
Matthew3:9 and do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham for our father’; for I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham." 
Matthew3:10 And the axe is already laid at the root of the trees; therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
Matthew3:11 “As for me, I baptize you with water for repentance, but He who is coming after me is mightier than I, and I am not fit to remove His sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire." 
Matthew3:12 His winnowing fork is in His hand, and He will thoroughly clear His threshing floor; and He will gather His wheat into the barn, but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.”" 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus arrived from Galilee at the Jordan coming to John to be baptized by him. 
Matthew3:13 Then Jesus arrived from Galilee at the Jordan coming to John to be baptized by him. 
Matthew3:14 But John tried to prevent Him, saying, “I have need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?”" 
Matthew3:14 But John tried to prevent Him, saying, “I have need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?”" 
Matthew3:15 But Jesus answered and said to him, “Permit it at this time; for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he permitted Him." 
Matthew3:16 And after being baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water; and behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming upon Him," 
Matthew3:17 and behold, there was a voice out of the heavens saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well-pleased.”" 
Matthew4:1 Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. 
Matthew4:2 And after He had fasted forty days and forty nights, He then became hungry." 
Matthew4:3 And the tempter came and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread.”" 
Matthew4:4 But He answered and said, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.’”" 
Matthew4:5 Then the devil took Him into the holy city and had Him stand on the pinnacle of the temple," 
Matthew4:6 and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down; for it is written, ‘He will command His angels concerning You’; and ‘On their hands they will bear You up, Lest You strike Your foot against a stone.’”" 
Matthew4:7 Jesus said to him, “Again, it is written, ‘You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.’”" 
Matthew4:8 Again, the devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory;" 
Matthew4:9 and he said to Him, “All these things I will give You, if You fall down and worship me.”" 
Matthew4:10 Then Jesus said to him, “Go, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and serve Him only.’”" 
Matthew4:11 Then the devil left Him; and behold, angels came and began to minister to Him." 
Matthew4:12 Now when Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody, He departed into Galilee;" 
Matthew4:12 Now when Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody, He departed into Galilee;" 
Matthew4:13 and leaving Nazareth, He came and lived in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali," 
Matthew4:14 in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet would be fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew4:15 “The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, By the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles—" 
Matthew4:16 The people who were sitting in darkness saw a great Light, And those who were sitting in the land and shadow of death, Upon them a Light dawned.”" 
Matthew4:17 From that time Jesus began to preach and say, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”" 
Matthew4:18 Now as Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon who was called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen." 
Matthew4:19 And He said to them, “Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men.”" 
Matthew4:20 And immediately they left their nets and followed Him. 
Matthew4:21 And going on from there He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and He called them." 
Matthew4:21 And going on from there He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and He called them." 
Matthew4:21 And going on from there He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and He called them." 
Matthew4:22 And immediately they left the boat and their father, and followed Him." 
Matthew4:23 And Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people." 
Matthew4:24 And the news about Him spread throughout all Syria; and they brought to Him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics; and He healed them." 
Matthew4:25 And large crowds followed Him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. 
Matthew4:25 And large crowds followed Him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. 
Matthew5:1 Now when Jesus saw the crowds, He went up on the mountain; and after He sat down, His disciples came to Him." 
Matthew5:2 And He opened His mouth and began to teach them, saying," 
Matthew5:3 “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:4 Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted." 
Matthew5:5 Blessed are the lowly, for they shall inherit the earth." 
Matthew5:6 Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied." 
Matthew5:7 Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy." 
Matthew5:8 Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." 
Matthew5:9 Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God." 
Matthew5:10 Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:11 “Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of Me." 
Matthew5:12 Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great; for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you." 
Matthew5:13 “You are the salt of the earth; but if the salt has become tasteless, how will it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out to be trampled under foot by men." 
Matthew5:14 “You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden; 
Matthew5:15 nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house." 
Matthew5:16 Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew5:17 “Do not think that I came to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I did not come to abolish but to fulfill. 
Matthew5:18 For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the Law until all is accomplished." 
Matthew5:19 Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:20 “For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew5:21 “You have heard that the ancients were told, ‘You shall not murder’ and ‘Whoever murders shall be guilty before the court.’" 
Matthew5:22 But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court; and whoever says to his brother, ‘Raca,’ shall be guilty before the Sanhedrin; and whoever says, ‘You fool,’ shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell." 
Matthew5:23 Therefore if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you," 
Matthew5:24 leave your offering there before the altar and go; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering." 
Matthew5:25 Make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you are with him on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison." 
Matthew5:26 Truly I say to you, you will not come out of there until you have paid up the last quadrans." 
Matthew5:27 “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery’;" 
Matthew5:28 but I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. 
Matthew5:29 But if your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out and throw it from you; for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body, than for your whole body to be thrown into hell." 
Matthew5:30 And if your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you; for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body, than for your whole body to go into hell." 
Matthew5:31 “Now it was said, ‘Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce’;" 
Matthew5:32 but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery; and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery." 
Matthew5:33 “Again, you have heard that the ancients were told, ‘You shall not make false vows, but shall fulfill your vows to the Lord.’" 
Matthew5:34 But I say to you, make no oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God," 
Matthew5:35 or by the earth, for it is the footstool of His feet, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King." 
Matthew5:36 Nor shall you make an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black." 
Matthew5:37 But let your statement be, ‘Yes, yes’ or ‘No, no’; anything beyond these is of the evil one." 
Matthew5:38 “You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’" 
Matthew5:39 But I say to you, do not resist an evil person; but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also." 
Matthew5:40 And if anyone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let him have your garment also." 
Matthew5:41 And whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him two." 
Matthew5:42 Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you." 
Matthew5:43 “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’" 
Matthew5:44 But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you," 
Matthew5:45 so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven; for He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous." 
Matthew5:46 For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?" 
Matthew5:47 And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?" 
Matthew5:48 Therefore you are to be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect." 
Matthew6:1 “Beware of doing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them; otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew6:2 “Therefore, when you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be glorified by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full." 
Matthew6:3 But when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing," 
Matthew6:4 so that your giving will be in secret; and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. 
Matthew6:5 “And when you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites; for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full." 
Matthew6:6 But you, when you pray, go into your inner room, and when you have shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you." 
Matthew6:7 “And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words." 
Matthew6:8 Therefore, do not be like them; for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him." 
Matthew6:9 “Pray, then, in this way: ‘Our Father who is in heaven, Hallowed be Your name." 
Matthew6:10 Your kingdom come. Your will be done, On earth as it is in heaven." 
Matthew6:11 Give us this day our daily bread. 
Matthew6:12 And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors." 
Matthew6:13 And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. [For Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.’]" 
Matthew6:14 For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly Father will also forgive you." 
Matthew6:15 But if you do not forgive others, then your Father will not forgive your transgressions." 
Matthew6:16 “Now whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full." 
Matthew6:17 But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face" 
Matthew6:18 so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you." 
Matthew6:19 “Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal." 
Matthew6:20 But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal;" 
Matthew6:21 for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also." 
Matthew6:22 “The eye is the lamp of the body; so then if your eye is clear, your whole body will be full of light." 
Matthew6:23 But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!" 
Matthew6:24 “No one can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth." 
Matthew6:25 “For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life, as to what you will eat or what you will drink; nor for your body, as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?" 
Matthew6:26 Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they?" 
Matthew6:27 And which of you by worrying can add a single cubit to his life span? 
Matthew6:28 And why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow; they do not toil nor do they spin," 
Matthew6:29 yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. 
Matthew6:30 But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will He not much more clothe you? You of little faith!" 
Matthew6:31 Do not worry then, saying, ‘What will we eat?’ or ‘What will we drink?’ or ‘What will we wear for clothing?’" 
Matthew6:32 For all these things the Gentiles eagerly seek; for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. 
Matthew6:33 But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be added to you." 
Matthew6:34 “So do not worry about tomorrow; for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. 
Matthew7:1 “Do not judge, so that you will not be judged." 
Matthew7:2 For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with what measure you measure, it will be measured to you." 
Matthew7:3 And why do you look at the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?" 
Matthew7:4 Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ and behold, the log is in your own eye?" 
Matthew7:5 You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye." 
Matthew7:6 “Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not throw your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces." 
Matthew7:7 “Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you." 
Matthew7:8 For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened." 
Matthew7:9 Or what man is there among you who, when his son asks for a loaf, will give him a stone?" 
Matthew7:10 Or if he asks for a fish, he will not give him a snake, will he?" 
Matthew7:11 If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask Him!" 
Matthew7:12 “Therefore, in all things, whatever you want people to do for you, so do for them, for this is the Law and the Prophets." 
Matthew7:13 “Enter through the narrow gate; for the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it." 
Matthew7:14 For the gate is narrow and the way is constricted that leads to life, and there are few who find it." 
Matthew7:15 “Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves." 
Matthew7:16 You will know them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? 
Matthew7:17 Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit." 
Matthew7:18 A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit." 
Matthew7:19 Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
Matthew7:20 So then, you will know them by their fruits." 
Matthew7:21 “Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of My Father who is in heaven will enter." 
Matthew7:22 Many will say to Me on that day, ‘Lord, Lord, in Your name did we not prophesy, and in Your name cast out demons, and in Your name do many miracles?’" 
Matthew7:23 And then I will declare to them, ‘I never knew you; depart from Me, you who practice lawlessness.’" 
Matthew7:24 “Therefore everyone who hears these words of Mine and does them, may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock." 
Matthew7:25 And the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew and fell against that house; and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock." 
Matthew7:26 And everyone hearing these words of Mine and not doing them, may be compared to a foolish man who built his house on the sand." 
Matthew7:27 And the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew and slammed against that house; and it fell—and great was its fall.”" 
Matthew7:28 Now it happened that when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were astonished at His teaching;" 
Matthew7:29 for He was teaching them as one having authority, and not as their scribes." 
Matthew8:1 Now when Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed Him." 
Matthew8:2 And behold, a leper came to Him and was bowing down before Him, and said, “Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean.”" 
Matthew8:3 And Jesus stretched out His hand and touched him, saying, “I am willing; be cleansed.” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed." 
Matthew8:4 And Jesus said to him, “See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”" 
Matthew8:5 And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to Him, pleading with Him," 
Matthew8:6 and saying, “Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented.”" 
Matthew8:7 And Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.”" 
Matthew8:8 But the centurion said, “Lord, I am not good enough for You to come under my roof, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed." 
Matthew8:9 For I also am a man under authority, with soldiers under me; and I say to this man, ‘Go!’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come!’ and he comes, and to my slave, ‘Do this!’ and he does it.”" 
Matthew8:10 Now when Jesus heard this, He marveled and said to those who were following, “Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel." 
Matthew8:11 And I say to you that many will come from east and west, and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven;" 
Matthew8:12 but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 
Matthew8:13 And Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; it shall be done for you as you have believed.” And the servant was healed that very moment." 
Matthew8:14 When Jesus came into Peter’s home, He saw his mother-in-law lying sick in bed with a fever." 
Matthew8:15 And He touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she got up and began waiting on Him." 
Matthew8:16 Now when evening came, they brought to Him many who were demon-possessed; and He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were ill" 
Matthew8:17 in order to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, “He Himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases.”" 
Matthew8:18 Now when Jesus saw a crowd around Him, He gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea." 
Matthew8:19 Then a scribe came and said to Him, “Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.”" 
Matthew8:20 And Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.”" 
Matthew8:21 And another of the disciples said to Him, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.”" 
Matthew8:22 But Jesus said to him, “Follow Me, and allow the dead to bury their own dead.”" 
Matthew8:23 And when He got into the boat, His disciples followed Him." 
Matthew8:24 And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being covered with the waves; but Jesus Himself was sleeping." 
Matthew8:25 And they came to Him and got Him up, saying, “Save us, Lord; we are perishing!”" 
Matthew8:26 And He said to them, “Why are you so cowardly, you men of little faith?” Then He got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and it became perfectly calm." 
Matthew8:27 And the men marveled, and said, “What kind of a man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him?”" 
Matthew8:28 And when He came to the other side, into the region of the Gadarenes, two men who were demon-possessed met Him as they were coming out of the tombs. They were so extremely violent that no one could pass by that way." 
Matthew8:29 And behold, they cried out, saying, “What do we have to do with You, Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?”" 
Matthew8:30 Now there was a herd of many swine feeding at a distance from them. 
Matthew8:31 And the demons began to plead with Him, saying, “If You are going to cast us out, send us into the herd of swine.”" 
Matthew8:32 And He said to them, “Go!” And coming out, they went into the swine; and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and perished in the waters." 
Matthew8:33 Now the herdsmen ran away, and went to the city and reported everything, including what had happened to the demoniacs." 
Matthew8:34 And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw Him, they pleaded with Him to leave their region." 
Matthew9:1 And getting into a boat, Jesus crossed over the sea and came to His own city." 
Matthew9:2 And behold, they brought to Him a paralytic lying on a bed. Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic, “Take courage, son; your sins are forgiven.”" 
Matthew9:3 And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, “This man blasphemes.”" 
Matthew9:4 And Jesus knowing their thoughts said, “Why are you thinking evil in your hearts?" 
Matthew9:5 For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?" 
Matthew9:6 But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—then He said to the paralytic, “Get up, pick up your bed and go home.”" 
Matthew9:7 And he got up and went home. 
Matthew9:8 But when the crowds saw this, they were afraid, and glorified God, who had given such authority to men." 
Matthew9:9 And as Jesus went on from there, He saw a man called Matthew, sitting in the tax office; and He said to him, “Follow Me!” And he stood up and followed Him." 
Matthew9:10 Then it happened that as Jesus was reclining at the table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were dining with Jesus and His disciples." 
Matthew9:11 And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to His disciples, “Why is your Teacher eating with the tax collectors and sinners?”" 
Matthew9:12 But when Jesus heard this, He said, “It is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick." 
Matthew9:13 But go and learn what this means: ‘I desire compassion, and not sacrifice,’ for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”" 
Matthew9:14 Then the disciples of John came to Him, asking, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Matthew9:14 Then the disciples of John came to Him, asking, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Matthew9:15 And Jesus said to them, “Can the attendants of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast." 
Matthew9:16 But no one puts a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; for the patch pulls away from the garment, and a worse tear results." 
Matthew9:17 Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the wineskins burst, and the wine pours out and the wineskins are ruined; but they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.”" 
Matthew9:18 While He was saying these things to them, behold, a synagogue official came and was bowing down before Him, and said, “My daughter has just died; but come and lay Your hand on her, and she will live.”" 
Matthew9:19 And Jesus got up and began to follow him, and so did His disciples." 
Matthew9:20 And behold, a woman who had been suffering from a hemorrhage for twelve years, came up behind Him and touched the fringe of His garment;" 
Matthew9:21 for she was saying to herself, “If I only touch His garment, I will be saved from this.”" 
Matthew9:22 But Jesus turning and seeing her said, “Daughter, take courage; your faith has saved you.” At once the woman was saved from her hemorrhage." 
Matthew9:23 And when Jesus came into the official’s house, and saw the flute-players and the crowd in noisy disorder," 
Matthew9:24 He was saying, “Leave; for the girl has not died, but is asleep.” And they began laughing at Him." 
Matthew9:25 But when the crowd had been sent out, coming in, He took her by the hand, and the girl got up." 
Matthew9:26 And this news spread throughout all that land. 
Matthew9:27 And as Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed Him, crying out, “Have mercy on us, Son of David!”" 
Matthew9:28 And when He entered the house, the blind men came up to Him, and Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They said to Him, “Yes, Lord.”" 
Matthew9:29 Then He touched their eyes, saying, “It shall be done to you according to your faith.”" 
Matthew9:30 And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, saying, “See that no one knows about this!”" 
Matthew9:31 But they went out and spread the news about Him throughout all that land. 
Matthew9:32 Now as they were going out, behold, a mute, demon-possessed man was brought to Him." 
Matthew9:33 And after the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke; and the crowds marveled, saying, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel.”" 
Matthew9:34 But the Pharisees were saying, “He casts out the demons by the ruler of the demons.”" 
Matthew9:35 And Jesus was going through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness." 
Matthew9:36 And seeing the crowds, He felt compassion for them, because they were distressed and downcast like sheep without a shepherd." 
Matthew9:37 Then He said to His disciples, “The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few." 
Matthew9:38 Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into His harvest.” 
Matthew10:1 And summoning His twelve disciples, Jesus gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every kind of disease and every kind of sickness." 
Matthew10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;" 
Matthew10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;" 
Matthew10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;" 
Matthew10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;" 
Matthew10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;" 
Matthew10:4 Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, the one who betrayed Him." 
Matthew10:5 These twelve Jesus sent out after instructing them, saying, “Do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any city of the Samaritans;" 
Matthew10:6 but rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
Matthew10:7 And as you go, preach, saying, ‘The kingdom of heaven is at hand.’" 
Matthew10:8 Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Freely you received, freely give." 
Matthew10:9 Do not acquire gold, or silver, or copper for your money belts," 
Matthew10:10 or a bag for your journey, or even two tunics, or sandals, or a staff; for the worker is worthy of his support." 
Matthew10:11 And whatever city or village you enter, inquire who is worthy in it, and stay there until you leave." 
Matthew10:12 Now as you enter the house, give it your greeting." 
Matthew10:13 And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you." 
Matthew10:14 And whoever does not receive you, nor heed your words, as you leave that house or that city, shake the dust off your feet." 
Matthew10:15 Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city." 
Matthew10:16 “Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves; so be shrewd as serpents and innocent as doves." 
Matthew10:17 But beware of men, for they will deliver you over to the courts and flog you in their synagogues;" 
Matthew10:18 and you will even be brought before governors and kings for My sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles." 
Matthew10:19 But when they deliver you over, do not worry about how or what you are to say; for it will be given to you in that hour what you are to say." 
Matthew10:20 For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you." 
Matthew10:21 “And brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death." 
Matthew10:22 And you will be hated by all because of My name, but it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved." 
Matthew10:23 “But whenever they persecute you in this city, flee to the next; for truly I say to you, you will not finish going through the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes." 
Matthew10:24 “A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master." 
Matthew10:25 It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. If they have called the head of the house Beelzebul, how much more the members of his household!" 
Matthew10:26 “Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known." 
Matthew10:27 What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear whispered in your ear, proclaim upon the housetops." 
Matthew10:28 And do not fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul; but rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. 
Matthew10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion? And yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. 
Matthew10:30 But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. 
Matthew10:31 So do not fear; you are more valuable than many sparrows. 
Matthew10:32 “Therefore everyone who confesses Me before men, I will also confess him before My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew10:33 But whoever denies Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew10:34 “Do not think that I came to bring peace on the earth; I did not come to bring peace, but a sword." 
Matthew10:35 For I came to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;" 
Matthew10:36 and a man’s enemies will be the members of his household. 
Matthew10:37 “He who loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me; and he who loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me. 
Matthew10:38 And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me. 
Matthew10:39 He who has found his life will lose it, and he who has lost his life for My sake will find it." 
Matthew10:40 “He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me." 
Matthew10:41 He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet’s reward; and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man’s reward. 
Matthew10:42 And whoever in the name of a disciple gives to one of these little ones even a cup of cold water to drink, truly I say to you, he shall not lose his reward.”" 
Matthew11:1 Now it happened that when Jesus had finished giving instructions to His twelve disciples, He departed from there to teach and preach in their cities." 
Matthew11:2 Now when John in prison heard of the works of Christ, he sent word by his disciples" 
Matthew11:2 Now when John in prison heard of the works of Christ, he sent word by his disciples" 
Matthew11:3 and said to Him, “Are You the One who is to come, or shall we look for someone else?”" 
Matthew11:4 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Go and report to John what you hear and see:" 
Matthew11:4 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Go and report to John what you hear and see:" 
Matthew11:5 the blind receive sight and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them." 
Matthew11:6 And blessed is he who does not take offense at Me.” 
Matthew11:7 Now as these men were going away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John, “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Matthew11:7 Now as these men were going away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John, “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Matthew11:8 But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings’ palaces!" 
Matthew11:9 But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and one who is more than a prophet." 
Matthew11:10 This is the one about whom it is written, ‘Behold, I send My messenger ahead of You, Who will prepare Your way before You.’" 
Matthew11:11 Truly I say to you, among those born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist! Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he." 
Matthew11:11 Truly I say to you, among those born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist! Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he." 
Matthew11:12 And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and violent men take it by force." 
Matthew11:12 And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and violent men take it by force." 
Matthew11:13 For all the prophets and the Law prophesied until John. 
Matthew11:13 For all the prophets and the Law prophesied until John. 
Matthew11:14 And if you are willing to accept it, John himself is Elijah who was to come." 
Matthew11:14 And if you are willing to accept it, John himself is Elijah who was to come." 
Matthew11:15 He who has ears to hear, let him hear." 
Matthew11:16 “But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, who call out to the other children," 
Matthew11:17 and say, ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.’" 
Matthew11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon!’" 
Matthew11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon!’" 
Matthew11:19 The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ Yet wisdom is vindicated by her deeds.”" 
Matthew11:20 Then He began to denounce the cities in which most of His miracles were done, because they did not repent." 
Matthew11:21 “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles had occurred in Tyre and Sidon which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes." 
Matthew11:22 Nevertheless I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you." 
Matthew11:23 And Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will descend to Hades; for if the miracles had occurred in Sodom which occurred in you, it would have remained to this day." 
Matthew11:24 Nevertheless I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for you.”" 
Matthew11:25 At that time Jesus said, “I praise You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants." 
Matthew11:26 Yes, Father, for this way was well-pleasing in Your sight." 
Matthew11:27 All things have been handed over to Me by My Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father; nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal Him." 
Matthew11:28 “Come to Me, all who are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest." 
Matthew11:29 Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls." 
Matthew11:30 For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.” 
Matthew12:1 At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath, and His disciples became hungry and began to pick the heads of grain and eat." 
Matthew12:2 But when the Pharisees saw this, they said to Him, “Look, Your disciples do what is not lawful to do on a Sabbath.”" 
Matthew12:3 But He said to them, “Have you not read what David did when he became hungry, he and his companions," 
Matthew12:4 how he entered the house of God, and they ate the consecrated bread, which was not lawful for him to eat nor for those with him, but for the priests alone?" 
Matthew12:5 Or have you not read in the Law, that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple break the Sabbath and are innocent?" 
Matthew12:6 But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here. 
Matthew12:7 But if you had known what this means, ‘I desire compassion, and not a sacrifice,’ you would not have condemned the innocent." 
Matthew12:8 For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.” 
Matthew12:9 And departing from there, He went into their synagogue." 
Matthew12:10 And behold, a man was there whose hand was withered. And they questioned Jesus, saying, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?”—so that they might accuse Him." 
Matthew12:11 And He said to them, “What man is there among you who has a sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?" 
Matthew12:12 How much more valuable then is a man than a sheep! So then, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”" 
Matthew12:13 Then He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand!” He stretched it out, and it was restored to normal, like the other." 
Matthew12:14 But going out, the Pharisees took counsel together against Him, as to how they might destroy Him." 
Matthew12:15 But Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there. Many followed Him, and He healed them all," 
Matthew12:16 and warned them not to make Him known," 
Matthew12:17 in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet would be fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew12:18 “Behold, My Servant whom I have chosen; My Beloved in whom My soul is well‑pleased; I will put My Spirit upon Him, And He shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles." 
Matthew12:19 He will not quarrel, nor cry out; Nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets." 
Matthew12:20 A battered reed He will not break off, And a smoldering wick He will not put out, Until He leads justice to victory." 
Matthew12:21 And in His name the Gentiles will hope.” 
Matthew12:22 Then a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to Jesus, and He healed him, so that the mute man spoke and saw." 
Matthew12:23 And all the crowds were astounded, and were saying, “Can this man really be the Son of David?”" 
Matthew12:24 But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, “This man does not cast out demons except by Beelzebul the ruler of the demons.”" 
Matthew12:25 And knowing their thoughts He said to them, “Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste; and any city or house divided against itself will not stand." 
Matthew12:26 And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself; how then will his kingdom stand?" 
Matthew12:27 And if I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason they will be your judges." 
Matthew12:28 But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you." 
Matthew12:29 Or how can anyone enter the strong man’s house and carry off his property, unless he first binds the strong man? And then he will plunder his house." 
Matthew12:30 He who is not with Me is against Me; and he who does not gather with Me scatters. 
Matthew12:31 “Therefore I say to you, any sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven." 
Matthew12:32 And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, either in this age or in the age to come." 
Matthew12:33 “Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad; for the tree is known by its fruit." 
Matthew12:34 You brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? For the mouth speaks out of that which fills the heart." 
Matthew12:35 The good man brings out of his good treasure what is good; and the evil man brings out of his evil treasure what is evil. 
Matthew12:36 But I tell you that every careless word that people speak, they shall give an accounting for it in the day of judgment." 
Matthew12:37 For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”" 
Matthew12:38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered and said to Him, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from You.”" 
Matthew12:39 But He answered and said to them, “An evil and adulterous generation eagerly seeks for a sign; and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet;" 
Matthew12:40 for just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth." 
Matthew12:41 The men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment, and will condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and behold, something greater than Jonah is here." 
Matthew12:42 The Queen of the South will rise up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, something greater than Solomon is here." 
Matthew12:43 “Now when the unclean spirit goes out of a man, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, and does not find it." 
Matthew12:44 Then it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came’; and when it comes, it finds it unoccupied, swept, and put in order." 
Matthew12:45 Then it goes and takes along with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there; and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. That is the way it will also be with this evil generation.”" 
Matthew12:46 While He was still speaking to the crowds, behold, His mother and brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak to Him." 
Matthew12:47 Now someone said to Him, “Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak to You.”" 
Matthew12:48 But Jesus answered the one who was telling Him and said, “Who is My mother and who are My brothers?”" 
Matthew12:49 And stretching out His hand toward His disciples, He said, “Behold My mother and My brothers!" 
Matthew12:50 For whoever does the will of My Father who is in heaven, he is My brother and sister and mother.”" 
Matthew13:1 On that day Jesus went out of the house and was sitting by the sea. 
Matthew13:2 And large crowds gathered to Him, so He got into a boat and sat down, and the whole crowd was standing on the beach." 
Matthew13:3 And He spoke many things to them in parables, saying, “Behold, the sower went out to sow;" 
Matthew13:4 and as he sowed, some seeds fell beside the road, and the birds came and ate them up." 
Matthew13:5 And others fell on the rocky places, where they did not have much soil; and immediately they sprang up, because they had no depth of soil." 
Matthew13:6 But when the sun had risen, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away." 
Matthew13:7 And others fell among the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked them out." 
Matthew13:8 And others fell on the good soil and were yielding a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty." 
Matthew13:9 He who has ears, let him hear.”" 
Matthew13:10 And the disciples came and said to Him, “Why do You speak to them in parables?”" 
Matthew13:11 And Jesus answered and said to them, “To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given." 
Matthew13:12 For whoever has, to him more shall be given, and he will have an abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him." 
Matthew13:13 Therefore I speak to them in parables; because while seeing they do not see, and while hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand." 
Matthew13:14 And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says, ‘You will keep on hearing, but will not understand; You will keep on seeing, but will not perceive;" 
Matthew13:15 For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes, Lest they would see with their eyes, Hear with their ears, And understand with their heart and return, And I would heal them.’" 
Matthew13:16 But blessed are your eyes, because they see; and your ears, because they hear." 
Matthew13:17 For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it." 
Matthew13:18 “Hear then the parable of the sower. 
Matthew13:19 When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is the one on whom seed was sown beside the road." 
Matthew13:20 And the one on whom seed was sown on the rocky places, this is the man who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy;" 
Matthew13:21 yet he has no root in himself, but is only temporary, and when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he falls away." 
Matthew13:22 And the one on whom seed was sown among the thorns, this is the one who hears the word, and the worry of the world and the deceitfulness of wealth choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful." 
Matthew13:23 And the one on whom seed was sown on the good soil, this is the man who hears the word and understands it; who indeed bears fruit and brings forth, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty.”" 
Matthew13:24 He presented another parable to them, saying, “The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field." 
Matthew13:25 But while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went away." 
Matthew13:26 But when the wheat sprouted and bore grain, then the tares became evident also." 
Matthew13:27 The slaves of the landowner came and said to him, ‘Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares?’" 
Matthew13:28 And he said to them, ‘An enemy has done this!’ The slaves said to him, ‘Do you want us, then, to go and gather them up?’" 
Matthew13:29 But he said, ‘No; for while you are gathering up the tares, you may uproot the wheat with them." 
Matthew13:30 Allow both to grow together until the harvest; and in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, “First gather up the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them up; but gather the wheat into my barn.”’”" 
Matthew13:31 He presented another parable to them, saying, “The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field;" 
Matthew13:32 and this is the smallest of all seeds, but when it is fully grown, it is the largest of the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and nest in its branches.”" 
Matthew13:33 He spoke another parable to them, “The kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three sata of flour until it was all leavened.”" 
Matthew13:34 All these things Jesus spoke to the crowds in parables, and He was not speaking to them without a parable" 
Matthew13:35 so that what was spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, “I will open My mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden since the foundation of the world.”" 
Matthew13:36 Then He left the crowds and went into the house. And His disciples came to Him and said, “Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field.”" 
Matthew13:37 And He answered and said, “The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man," 
Matthew13:38 and the field is the world; and as for the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the evil one;" 
Matthew13:39 and the enemy who sowed them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the age; and the reapers are angels." 
Matthew13:40 So just as the tares are gathered up and burned with fire, so shall it be at the end of the age." 
Matthew13:41 The Son of Man will send forth His angels, and they will gather out of His kingdom all stumbling blocks, and those who commit lawlessness," 
Matthew13:42 and will throw them into the fiery furnace; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew13:43 Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear." 
Matthew13:44 “The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man found and hid again; and from joy over it he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field." 
Matthew13:45 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking fine pearls," 
Matthew13:46 and upon finding one pearl of great value, he went and sold all that he had and bought it." 
Matthew13:47 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet cast into the sea, and gathering fish of every kind;" 
Matthew13:48 and when it was filled, they drew it up on the beach; and they sat down and gathered the good fish into containers, but the bad they threw away." 
Matthew13:49 So it will be at the end of the age; the angels will come forth and take out the wicked from among the righteous," 
Matthew13:50 and will throw them into the fiery furnace; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew13:51 “Have you understood all these things?” They said to Him, “Yes.”" 
Matthew13:52 And He said to them, “Therefore every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like a head of a household, who brings out of his treasure things new and old.”" 
Matthew13:53 Now it happened that when Jesus had finished these parables, He departed from there." 
Matthew13:54 And He came to His hometown and began teaching them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, “Where did this man get this wisdom and these miraculous powers?" 
Matthew13:55 Is not this the carpenter’s son? Is not His mother called Mary, and His brothers, James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?" 
Matthew13:55 Is not this the carpenter’s son? Is not His mother called Mary, and His brothers, James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?" 
Matthew13:56 And His sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things?”" 
Matthew13:57 And they were taking offense at Him. But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household.”" 
Matthew13:58 And He did not do many miracles there because of their unbelief. 
Matthew14:1 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the news about Jesus," 
Matthew14:2 and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers are at work in him.”" 
Matthew14:2 and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers are at work in him.”" 
Matthew14:3 For when Herod had John arrested, he bound him and put him in prison because of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip." 
Matthew14:3 For when Herod had John arrested, he bound him and put him in prison because of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip." 
Matthew14:4 For John had been saying to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”" 
Matthew14:4 For John had been saying to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”" 
Matthew14:5 And although Herod wanted to put him to death, he feared the crowd, because they were regarding John as a prophet." 
Matthew14:5 And although Herod wanted to put him to death, he feared the crowd, because they were regarding John as a prophet." 
Matthew14:6 But when Herod’s birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod," 
Matthew14:7 so much that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked. 
Matthew14:8 Now having been prompted by her mother, she said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.”" 
Matthew14:8 Now having been prompted by her mother, she said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.”" 
Matthew14:9 And although he was grieved, the king commanded it to be given because of his oaths, and because of his dinner guests." 
Matthew14:10 And he sent and had John beheaded in the prison. 
Matthew14:10 And he sent and had John beheaded in the prison. 
Matthew14:11 And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother." 
Matthew14:12 And his disciples came and took away the body and buried it; and they went and reported to Jesus. 
Matthew14:13 Now when Jesus heard about John, He withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by Himself; and when the crowds heard of this, they followed Him on foot from the cities." 
Matthew14:13 Now when Jesus heard about John, He withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by Himself; and when the crowds heard of this, they followed Him on foot from the cities." 
Matthew14:14 And when He went ashore, He saw a large crowd, and felt compassion for them and healed their sick." 
Matthew14:15 Now when it was evening, the disciples came to Him and said, “This place is desolate and the hour is already late; so send the crowds away, that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves.”" 
Matthew14:16 But Jesus said to them, “They do not need to go away; you give them something to eat!”" 
Matthew14:17 But they said to Him, “We have here only five loaves and two fish.”" 
Matthew14:18 And He said, “Bring them here to Me.”" 
Matthew14:19 And ordering the crowds to sit down on the grass, He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up toward heaven, He blessed the food. And breaking the loaves, He gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds," 
Matthew14:20 and they all ate and were satisfied. They picked up what was left over of the broken pieces, twelve full baskets." 
Matthew14:21 And there were about five thousand men who ate, besides women and children." 
Matthew14:22 Immediately He made the disciples get into the boat and go ahead of Him to the other side, while He sent the crowds away." 
Matthew14:23 And after He had sent the crowds away, He went up on the mountain by Himself to pray; and when it was evening, He was there alone." 
Matthew14:24 But the boat was already many stadia away from the land, being battered by the waves; for the wind was against them." 
Matthew14:25 And in the fourth watch of the night He came to them, walking on the sea." 
Matthew14:26 Now when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they were terrified, and said, “It is a ghost!” And they cried out in fear." 
Matthew14:27 But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Take courage, it is I; do not be afraid.”" 
Matthew14:28 And Peter answered and said to Him, “Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the water.”" 
Matthew14:29 And He said, “Come!” And getting out of the boat, Peter walked on the water and came toward Jesus." 
Matthew14:30 But seeing the wind, he became frightened, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, “Lord, save me!”" 
Matthew14:31 And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and took hold of him, and said to him, “You of little faith, why did you doubt?”" 
Matthew14:32 And when they got into the boat, the wind stopped." 
Matthew14:33 And those who were in the boat worshiped Him, saying, “You are truly God’s Son!”" 
Matthew14:34 And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret." 
Matthew14:35 And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent word into all that surrounding district and brought to Him all who were sick;" 
Matthew14:36 and they were pleading with Him that they might just touch the fringe of His garment; and as many as touched it were cured. 
Matthew15:1 Then some Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said," 
Matthew15:2 “Why do Your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.” 
Matthew15:3 And He answered and said to them, “Why do you yourselves transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition?" 
Matthew15:4 For God said, ‘Honor your father and mother,’ and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother is to be put to death.’" 
Matthew15:5 But you say, ‘Whoever says to his father or mother, “Whatever you might benefit from me is given to God,”" 
Matthew15:6 he need not honor his father.’ And by this you invalidated the word of God for the sake of your tradition. 
Matthew15:7 You hypocrites, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you:" 
Matthew15:8 ‘This people honors Me with their lips, But their heart is far away from Me." 
Matthew15:9 But in vain do they worship Me, Teaching as doctrines the commands of men.’”" 
Matthew15:10 After Jesus called the crowd to Him, He said to them, “Hear and understand." 
Matthew15:11 It is not what enters into the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles the man.”" 
Matthew15:12 Then the disciples came and said to Him, “Do You know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this statement?”" 
Matthew15:13 But He answered and said, “Every plant which My heavenly Father did not plant shall be uprooted." 
Matthew15:14 Let them alone; they are blind guides of the blind. And if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit.”" 
Matthew15:15 Now Peter answered and said to Him, “Explain the parable to us.”" 
Matthew15:16 And Jesus said, “Are you still lacking in understanding also?" 
Matthew15:17 Do you not understand that everything that goes into the mouth passes into the stomach, and goes into the sewer?" 
Matthew15:18 But the things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and those defile the man." 
Matthew15:19 For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, sexual immoralities, thefts, false witness, slanders." 
Matthew15:20 These are the things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man.” 
Matthew15:21 And going away from there, Jesus withdrew into the district of Tyre and Sidon." 
Matthew15:22 And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and began to cry out, saying, “Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David; my daughter is cruelly demon-possessed.”" 
Matthew15:23 But He did not answer her a word. And His disciples came and were pleading with Him, saying, “Send her away, because she keeps shouting at us.”" 
Matthew15:24 But He answered and said, “I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”" 
Matthew15:25 But she came and was bowing down before Him, saying, “Lord, help me!”" 
Matthew15:26 And He answered and said, “It is not good to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”" 
Matthew15:27 But she said, “Yes, Lord; but even the dogs feed on the crumbs which fall from their masters’ table.”" 
Matthew15:28 Then Jesus answered and said to her, “O woman, your faith is great; it shall be done for you as you wish.” And her daughter was healed at once." 
Matthew15:29 And departing from there, Jesus went along by the Sea of Galilee, and having gone up on the mountain, He was sitting there." 
Matthew15:30 And large crowds came to Him, bringing with them those who were lame, crippled, blind, mute, and many others, and they laid them down at His feet; and He healed them." 
Matthew15:31 So the crowd marveled as they saw the mute speaking, the crippled restored, and the lame walking, and the blind seeing; and they glorified the God of Israel." 
Matthew15:32 And Jesus called His disciples to Him, and said, “I feel compassion for the crowd, because they have remained with Me now three days and have nothing to eat; and I do not want to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.”" 
Matthew15:33 And the disciples said to Him, “Where would we get so many loaves in this desolate place to satisfy such a large crowd?”" 
Matthew15:34 And Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” And they said, “Seven, and a few small fish.”" 
Matthew15:35 And He directed the crowd to sit down on the ground; 
Matthew15:36 and He took the seven loaves and the fish; and giving thanks, He broke them and kept giving them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds." 
Matthew15:37 And they all ate and were satisfied, and they picked up what was left over of the broken pieces, seven large baskets full." 
Matthew15:38 And those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children." 
Matthew15:39 And sending away the crowds, Jesus got into the boat and came to the region of Magadan." 
Matthew16:1 And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing Him, they asked Him to show them a sign from heaven." 
Matthew16:2 But He replied to them, “When it is evening, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’" 
Matthew16:3 And in the morning, ‘There will be a storm today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ Do you know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but cannot discern the signs of the times?" 
Matthew16:4 An evil and adulterous generation eagerly seeks for a sign; and a sign will not be given it, except the sign of Jonah.” And He left them and went away." 
Matthew16:5 And coming to the other side of the sea, the disciples had forgotten to bring bread." 
Matthew16:6 And Jesus said to them, “Watch out and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”" 
Matthew16:7 Now they began to discuss this among themselves, saying, “He said that because we did not bring bread.”" 
Matthew16:8 But Jesus, aware of this, said, “You men of little faith, why do you discuss among yourselves that you have no bread?" 
Matthew16:9 Do you not yet understand or remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets full you picked up?" 
Matthew16:10 Or the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many large baskets full you picked up?" 
Matthew16:11 How is it that you do not understand that I did not speak to you concerning bread? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” 
Matthew16:12 Then they understood that He did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees." 
Matthew16:13 Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, He was asking His disciples, saying, “Who do people say that the Son of Man is?”" 
Matthew16:14 And they said, “Some say John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; but still others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:14 And they said, “Some say John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; but still others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:15 He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?”" 
Matthew16:16 And Simon Peter answered and said, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.”" 
Matthew16:17 And Jesus answered and said to him, “Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew16:18 And I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church; and the gates of Hades will not overpower it." 
Matthew16:19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven.”" 
Matthew16:20 Then He warned the disciples that they should tell no one that He was the Christ. 
Matthew16:21 From that time Jesus began to show His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised up on the third day." 
Matthew16:22 And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him, saying, “God forbid it, Lord! This shall never happen to You.”" 
Matthew16:23 But He turned and said to Peter, “Get behind Me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to Me; for you are not setting your mind on God’s interests, but man’s.”" 
Matthew16:24 Then Jesus said to His disciples, “If anyone wishes to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Me." 
Matthew16:25 For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for My sake will find it. 
Matthew16:26 For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? 
Matthew16:27 For the Son of Man is going to come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and will then repay each one according to his deeds." 
Matthew16:28 “Truly I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.”" 
Matthew17:1 And six days later Jesus brought with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up on a high mountain by themselves." 
Matthew17:1 And six days later Jesus brought with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up on a high mountain by themselves." 
Matthew17:1 And six days later Jesus brought with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up on a high mountain by themselves." 
Matthew17:2 And He was transfigured before them; and His face shone like the sun, and His garments became as white as light." 
Matthew17:3 And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with Him." 
Matthew17:4 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You wish, I will make three booths here, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”" 
Matthew17:5 While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice out of the cloud said, “This is My beloved Son, with whom I am well-pleased; listen to Him!”" 
Matthew17:6 And when the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified." 
Matthew17:7 And Jesus came to them and touched them and said, “Get up, and do not be afraid.”" 
Matthew17:8 And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus Himself alone." 
Matthew17:9 And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, “Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man has risen from the dead.”" 
Matthew17:10 And His disciples asked Him, saying, “Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?”" 
Matthew17:11 And He answered and said, “Elijah is coming and will restore all things;" 
Matthew17:12 but I say to you that Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished. So also the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands.”" 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples understood that He had spoken to them about John the Baptist. 
Matthew17:13 Then the disciples understood that He had spoken to them about John the Baptist. 
Matthew17:14 And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to Jesus, falling on his knees before Him and saying," 
Matthew17:15 “Lord, have mercy on my son, for he has seizures and suffers terribly; for he often falls into the fire and often into the water." 
Matthew17:16 And I brought him to Your disciples, and they could not cure him.”" 
Matthew17:17 And Jesus answered and said, “O you unbelieving and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring him here to Me.”" 
Matthew17:18 And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was cured at once." 
Matthew17:19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, “Why could we not cast it out?”" 
Matthew17:20 And He said to them, “Because of your little faith; for truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible to you." 
Matthew17:21 [But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.”] 
Matthew17:22 And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men;" 
Matthew17:23 and they will kill Him, and He will be raised on the third day.” And they were deeply grieved." 
Matthew17:24 Now when they came to Capernaum, those who collected the two-drachma tax came to Peter and said, “Does your teacher not pay the two-drachma tax?”" 
Matthew17:25 He said, “Yes.” And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect tolls or taxes, from their sons or from strangers?”" 
Matthew17:26 And when Peter said, “From strangers,” Jesus said to him, “Then the sons are exempt." 
Matthew17:27 However, so that we do not offend them, go to the sea and throw in a hook, and take the first fish that comes up; and when you open its mouth, you will find a stater. Take that and give it to them for Me and you.”" 
Matthew18:1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus and said, “Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?”" 
Matthew18:2 And He called a child to Himself and set him before them," 
Matthew18:3 and said, “Truly I say to you, unless you are converted and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew18:4 Whoever therefore will humble himself as this child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew18:5 And whoever receives one such child in My name receives Me; 
Matthew18:6 but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in Me to stumble, it is better for him that a heavy millstone be hung around his neck, and that he be drowned in the depth of the sea." 
Matthew18:7 “Woe to the world because of its stumbling blocks! For it is inevitable that stumbling blocks come; nevertheless, woe to that man through whom the stumbling block comes!" 
Matthew18:8 “And if your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it from you; it is better for you to enter life crippled or lame, than, having two hands or two feet, to be cast into the eternal fire." 
Matthew18:9 And if your eye causes you to stumble, tear it out and throw it from you. It is better for you to enter life with one eye, than, having two eyes, to be cast into the fiery hell." 
Matthew18:10 “See that you do not despise one of these little ones, for I say to you that their angels in heaven continually see the face of My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew18:11 [For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost.] 
Matthew18:12 “What do you think? If any man has one hundred sheep, and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go and search for the one that is straying?" 
Matthew18:13 And if it turns out that he finds it, truly I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray." 
Matthew18:14 In this way, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones perish." 
Matthew18:15 “Now if your brother sins, go and show him his fault, between you and him alone; if he listens to you, you have won your brother." 
Matthew18:16 But if he does not listen to you, take one or two more with you, so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every fact may be confirmed." 
Matthew18:17 And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church; and if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as the Gentile and the tax collector." 
Matthew18:18 Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven; and whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven." 
Matthew18:19 “Again I say to you, that if two of you agree on earth about anything that they may ask, it shall be done for them by My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew18:20 For where two or three have gathered together in My name, I am there in their midst.”" 
Matthew18:21 Then Peter came and said to Him, “Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times?”" 
Matthew18:22 Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you, up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven." 
Matthew18:23 “For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. 
Matthew18:24 When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him." 
Matthew18:25 But since he did not have the means to repay, his lord commanded him to be sold, along with his wife and children and all that he had, and repayment to be made." 
Matthew18:26 Therefore, the slave fell to the ground and was prostrating himself before him, saying, ‘Have patience with me and I will repay you everything.’" 
Matthew18:27 And feeling compassion, the lord of that slave released him and forgave him the debt." 
Matthew18:28 But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him one hundred denarii; and he seized him and began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay back what you owe.’" 
Matthew18:29 So, his fellow slave fell to the ground and was pleading with him, saying, ‘Have patience with me and I will repay you.’" 
Matthew18:30 But he was unwilling and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. 
Matthew18:31 So, when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved and came and reported to their lord all that had happened." 
Matthew18:32 Then summoning him, his lord said to him, ‘You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me." 
Matthew18:33 Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave, in the same way that I had mercy on you?’" 
Matthew18:34 And his lord, moved with anger, handed him over to the torturers until he should repay all that was owed him." 
Matthew18:35 My heavenly Father will also do the same to you, if each of you does not forgive his brother from your hearts.”" 
Matthew19:1 Now it happened that when Jesus had finished these words, He departed from Galilee and came into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan;" 
Matthew19:1 Now it happened that when Jesus had finished these words, He departed from Galilee and came into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan;" 
Matthew19:2 and large crowds followed Him, and He healed them there." 
Matthew19:3 And some Pharisees came to Jesus, testing Him and saying, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all?”" 
Matthew19:4 And He answered and said, “Have you not read that He who created them from the beginning made them male and female," 
Matthew19:5 and said, ‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh’?" 
Matthew19:6 So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate.”" 
Matthew19:7 They said to Him, “Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away?”" 
Matthew19:8 He said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart Moses permitted you to divorce your wives; but from the beginning it has not been this way." 
Matthew19:9 And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another woman commits adultery.”" 
Matthew19:10 The disciples said to Him, “If the relationship of the man with his wife is like this, it is better not to marry.”" 
Matthew19:11 But He said to them, “Not all men can accept this statement, but only those to whom it has been given." 
Matthew19:12 For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother’s womb; and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men; and there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. He who is able to accept this, let him accept it.”" 
Matthew19:13 Then some children were brought to Him so that He might lay His hands on them and pray; and the disciples rebuked them. 
Matthew19:14 But Jesus said, “Let the children alone, and do not hinder them from coming to Me; for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these.”" 
Matthew19:15 And after laying His hands on them, He departed from there." 
Matthew19:16 And behold, someone came to Him and said, “Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?”" 
Matthew19:17 And He said to him, “Why are you asking Me about what is good? There is only One who is good; but if you wish to enter into life, keep the commandments.”" 
Matthew19:18 Then he said to Him, “Which ones?” And Jesus said, “You shall not murder; You shall not commit adultery; You shall not steal; You shall not bear false witness;" 
Matthew19:19 Honor your father and mother; and You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 
Matthew19:20 The young man said to Him, “All these things I have kept; what am I still lacking?”" 
Matthew19:21 Jesus said to him, “If you wish to be complete, go and sell your possessions and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.”" 
Matthew19:22 But when the young man heard this statement, he went away grieving; for he was one who owned much property." 
Matthew19:23 And Jesus said to His disciples, “Truly I say to you, it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven." 
Matthew19:24 And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.”" 
Matthew19:25 And when the disciples heard this, they were very astonished and said, “Then who can be saved?”" 
Matthew19:26 And looking at them Jesus said to them, “With people this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.”" 
Matthew19:27 Then Peter answered and said to Him, “Behold, we have left everything and followed You; what then will there be for us?”" 
Matthew19:28 And Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you, that you who have followed Me, in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on His glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel." 
Matthew19:29 And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or farms for My name’s sake, will receive one hundred times as much, and will inherit eternal life." 
Matthew19:30 But many who are first will be last; and the last, first." 
Matthew20:1 “For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. 
Matthew20:2 Now when he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius for the day, he sent them into his vineyard." 
Matthew20:3 And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace; 
Matthew20:4 and to those he said, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you.’ And so they went." 
Matthew20:5 Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour, and did the same thing." 
Matthew20:6 And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing around; and he said to them, ‘Why have you been standing here idle all day long?’" 
Matthew20:7 They said to him, ‘Because no one hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You go into the vineyard too.’" 
Matthew20:8 “Now when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, ‘Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last group to the first.’" 
Matthew20:9 And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each one received a denarius." 
Matthew20:10 And when those hired first came, they supposed that they would receive more; but each of them also received a denarius." 
Matthew20:11 Now when they received it, they were grumbling at the landowner," 
Matthew20:12 saying, ‘These last men have worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.’" 
Matthew20:13 But he answered and said to one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong; did you not agree with me for a denarius?" 
Matthew20:14 Take what is yours and go, but I wish to give to this last man the same as to you." 
Matthew20:15 Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous?’ 
Matthew20:16 So the last shall be first, and the first last.”" 
Matthew20:17 And as Jesus was about to go up to Jerusalem, He took the twelve disciples aside by themselves, and on the way He said to them," 
Matthew20:18 “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem; and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn Him to death," 
Matthew20:19 and will deliver Him over to the Gentiles to mock and flog and crucify Him, and on the third day He will be raised up.”" 
Matthew20:20 Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Him with her sons, bowing down and making a request of Him." 
Matthew20:21 And He said to her, “What do you wish?” She said to Him, “Command that in Your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit one on Your right and one on Your left.”" 
Matthew20:22 But Jesus answered and said, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink?” They said to Him, “We are able.”" 
Matthew20:23 He said to them, “My cup you shall drink; but to sit on My right and on My left, this is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by My Father.”" 
Matthew20:24 And hearing this, the ten became indignant with the two brothers." 
Matthew20:25 But Jesus called them to Himself and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them." 
Matthew20:26 It is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant," 
Matthew20:27 and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave; 
Matthew20:28 just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many.”" 
Matthew20:29 And as they were leaving Jericho, a large crowd followed Him." 
Matthew20:30 And behold, two blind men sitting by the road, hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, “Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!”" 
Matthew20:31 But the crowd sternly told them to be quiet, but they cried out all the more, saying, “Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!”" 
Matthew20:32 And Jesus stopped and called them, and said, “What do you want Me to do for you?”" 
Matthew20:33 They said to Him, “Lord, that our eyes be opened.”" 
Matthew20:34 And moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes; and immediately they regained their sight and followed Him." 
Matthew21:1 And when they had approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples," 
Matthew21:2 saying to them, “Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied there and a colt with her; untie them and bring them to Me." 
Matthew21:3 And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, ‘The Lord has need of them,’ and immediately he will send them.”" 
Matthew21:4 And this took place in order that what was spoken through the prophet would be fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew21:5 “Say to the daughter of Zion, ‘Behold your King is coming to you, Lowly, and mounted on a donkey, And on a colt, the foal of a pack animal.’”" 
Matthew21:6 And the disciples went and did just as Jesus had instructed them," 
Matthew21:7 and brought the donkey and the colt, and laid their garments on them; and He sat on the garments." 
Matthew21:8 And most of the crowd spread their garments in the road, and others were cutting branches from the trees and spreading them in the road." 
Matthew21:9 And the crowds going ahead of Him, and those who followed, were crying out, saying, “Hosanna to the Son of David; Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest!”" 
Matthew21:10 And when He had entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, “Who is this?”" 
Matthew21:11 And the crowds were saying, “This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth in Galilee.”" 
Matthew21:12 And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all those who were buying and selling in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves." 
Matthew21:13 And He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer’; but you are making it a robbers’ den.”" 
Matthew21:14 And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them." 
Matthew21:15 But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the marvelous things which He had done, and the children who were shouting in the temple, saying, “Hosanna to the Son of David,” they became indignant" 
Matthew21:16 and said to Him, “Do You hear what these children are saying?” And Jesus said to them, “Yes; have you never read, ‘Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies You have prepared praise for Yourself’?”" 
Matthew21:17 And He left them and went out of the city to Bethany, and spent the night there." 
Matthew21:18 Now in the morning, when He was returning to the city, He became hungry." 
Matthew21:19 And seeing a lone fig tree by the road, He came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only; and He said to it, “No longer shall there ever be any fruit from you.” And at once the fig tree withered." 
Matthew21:20 And seeing this, the disciples marveled, saying, “How did the fig tree wither all at once?”" 
Matthew21:21 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ it will happen." 
Matthew21:22 And all things you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive.”" 
Matthew21:23 And when He entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to Him while He was teaching, and said, “By what authority are You doing these things, and who gave You this authority?”" 
Matthew21:24 And Jesus answered and said to them, “I will also ask you one thing, which if you tell Me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Matthew21:25 The baptism of John was from what source, from heaven or from men?” And they began reasoning among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say to us, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’" 
Matthew21:25 The baptism of John was from what source, from heaven or from men?” And they began reasoning among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say to us, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’" 
Matthew21:26 But if we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the crowd; for they all regard John as a prophet.”" 
Matthew21:26 But if we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the crowd; for they all regard John as a prophet.”" 
Matthew21:27 And they answered Jesus and said, “We do not know.” He also said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Matthew21:28 “But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, ‘Son, go work today in the vineyard.’" 
Matthew21:29 And he answered and said, ‘I will not’; but afterward he regretted it and went." 
Matthew21:30 And the man came to the second and said the same thing; and he answered and said, ‘I will, sir’; but he did not go." 
Matthew21:31 Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you." 
Matthew21:32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness and you did not believe him; but the tax collectors and prostitutes did believe him; and you, seeing this, did not even regret afterward so as to believe him." 
Matthew21:32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness and you did not believe him; but the tax collectors and prostitutes did believe him; and you, seeing this, did not even regret afterward so as to believe him." 
Matthew21:33 “Listen to another parable. There was a landowner who planted a vineyard and put a wall around it and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and rented it out to vine-growers and went on a journey." 
Matthew21:34 Now when the harvest time approached, he sent his slaves to the vine-growers to receive his fruit." 
Matthew21:35 And the vine-growers took his slaves and beat one, and killed another, and stoned a third." 
Matthew21:36 Again he sent another group of slaves larger than the first; and they did the same thing to them. 
Matthew21:37 But afterward he sent his son to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’" 
Matthew21:38 But when the vine-growers saw the son, they said among themselves, ‘This is the heir; come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance.’" 
Matthew21:39 And they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him." 
Matthew21:40 Therefore when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine-growers?”" 
Matthew21:41 They said to Him, “He will bring those wretches to a wretched end, and will rent out the vineyard to other vine-growers who will pay him the proceeds at the proper seasons.”" 
Matthew21:42 Jesus said to them, “Did you never read in the Scriptures, ‘The stone which the builders rejected, This became the chief corner stone; This came about from the Lord, And it is marvelous in our eyes’?" 
Matthew21:43 Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a nation, producing the fruit of it." 
Matthew21:44 And he who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it will scatter him like dust.”" 
Matthew21:45 And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard His parables, they understood that He was speaking about them." 
Matthew21:46 And although they were seeking to seize Him, they feared the crowds, because they were regarding Him to be a prophet." 
Matthew22:1 And Jesus answered and spoke to them again in parables, saying," 
Matthew22:2 “The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son. 
Matthew22:3 And he sent out his slaves to call those who had been called to the wedding feast, and they were unwilling to come." 
Matthew22:4 Again he sent out other slaves saying, ‘Tell those who have been called, “Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fattened livestock are all butchered and everything is ready; come to the wedding feast.”’" 
Matthew22:5 But they paid no attention and went their way, one to his own farm, another to his business," 
Matthew22:6 and the rest seized his slaves and mistreated them and killed them. 
Matthew22:7 But the king was enraged, and he sent his armies and destroyed those murderers and set their city on fire." 
Matthew22:8 Then he said to his slaves, ‘The wedding is ready, but those who were called were not worthy." 
Matthew22:9 Go therefore to the main highways, and as many as you find there, call to the wedding feast.’" 
Matthew22:10 And those slaves went out into the streets and gathered together all they found, both evil and good; and the wedding hall was filled with dinner guests." 
Matthew22:11 “But when the king came in to look over the dinner guests, he saw a man there who was not dressed in wedding clothes," 
Matthew22:12 and he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you come in here without wedding clothes?’ And the man was speechless." 
Matthew22:13 Then the king said to the servants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, and throw him into the outer darkness; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’" 
Matthew22:14 For many are called, but few are chosen.”" 
Matthew22:15 Then the Pharisees went and took counsel together about how they might trap Him in what He said. 
Matthew22:16 And they sent their disciples to Him, along with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we know that You are truthful and teach the way of God in truth, and defer to no one; for You are not partial to any." 
Matthew22:17 Therefore, tell us, what do You think? Is it lawful to give a tax to Caesar, or not?”" 
Matthew22:18 But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said, “Why are you testing Me, you hypocrites?" 
Matthew22:19 Show Me the coin used for the tax.” And they brought Him a denarius. 
Matthew22:20 And He said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?”" 
Matthew22:21 They said to Him, “Caesar’s.” Then He said to them, “Therefore, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s; and to God the things that are God’s.”" 
Matthew22:22 And hearing this, they marveled, and leaving Him, they went away." 
Matthew22:23 On that day some Sadducees (who say there is no resurrection) came to Jesus and asked Him a question," 
Matthew22:24 saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies having no children, his brother as next of kin shall marry his wife and raise up a seed for his brother.’" 
Matthew22:25 Now there were seven brothers with us; and the first married and died, and having no seed, he left his wife to his brother;" 
Matthew22:26 so also the second, and the third, down to the seventh." 
Matthew22:27 And last of all, the woman died." 
Matthew22:28 In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife of the seven will she be? For they all had married her.”" 
Matthew22:29 But Jesus answered and said to them, “You are mistaken, not understanding the Scriptures nor the power of God." 
Matthew22:30 For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven." 
Matthew22:31 But regarding the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by God, saying," 
Matthew22:32 ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not the God of the dead but of the living.”" 
Matthew22:33 And when the crowds heard this, they were astonished at His teaching." 
Matthew22:34 But when the Pharisees heard that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered themselves together." 
Matthew22:35 And one of them, a scholar of the Law, asked Him a question, testing Him," 
Matthew22:36 “Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?”" 
Matthew22:37 And He said to him, “‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.’" 
Matthew22:38 This is the great and foremost commandment. 
Matthew22:39 And the second is like it, ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’" 
Matthew22:40 On these two commandments hang the whole Law and the Prophets.” 
Matthew22:41 Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question," 
Matthew22:42 saying, “What do you think about the Christ, whose son is He?” They said to Him, “The son of David.”" 
Matthew22:43 He said to them, “Then how does David in the Spirit call Him ‘Lord,’ saying," 
Matthew22:44 ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand, Until I put Your enemies beneath Your feet”’?" 
Matthew22:45 Therefore, if David calls Him ‘Lord,’ how is He his son?”" 
Matthew22:46 And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask Him another question." 
Matthew23:1 Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to His disciples," 
Matthew23:2 saying: “The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the chair of Moses; 
Matthew23:3 therefore all that they tell you, do and keep, but do not do according to their deeds; for they say things and do not do them." 
Matthew23:4 And they tie up heavy burdens and lay them on men’s shoulders, but they themselves are unwilling to move them with so much as a finger." 
Matthew23:5 But they do all their deeds to be noticed by men; for they broaden their phylacteries and lengthen the tassels of their garments. 
Matthew23:6 And they love the place of honor at banquets and the best seats in the synagogues," 
Matthew23:7 and respectful greetings in the marketplaces, and being called Rabbi by men." 
Matthew23:8 But do not be called Rabbi; for One is your Teacher, and you are all brothers." 
Matthew23:9 And do not call anyone on earth your father; for One is your Father, He who is in heaven." 
Matthew23:10 Do not be called instructors; for One is your Instructor, that is, Christ." 
Matthew23:11 But the greatest among you shall be your servant. 
Matthew23:12 And whoever exalts himself shall be humbled; and whoever humbles himself shall be exalted. 
Matthew23:13 “But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you shut off the kingdom of heaven from people; for you do not enter in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in." 
Matthew23:14 [Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense you make long prayers; therefore you will receive greater condemnation.]" 
Matthew23:15 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you travel around on sea and land to make one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves." 
Matthew23:16 “Woe to you, blind guides, who say, ‘Whoever swears by the sanctuary, that is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the sanctuary is obligated.’" 
Matthew23:17 You fools and blind men! For which is more important, the gold or the sanctuary that sanctified the gold?" 
Matthew23:18 And, ‘Whoever swears by the altar, that is nothing, but whoever swears by the offering on it, he is obligated.’" 
Matthew23:19 You blind men, which is more important, the offering, or the altar that sanctifies the offering?" 
Matthew23:20 Therefore, whoever swears by the altar, swears both by the altar and by everything on it." 
Matthew23:21 And whoever swears by the sanctuary, swears both by the sanctuary and by Him who dwells within it." 
Matthew23:22 And whoever swears by heaven, swears both by the throne of God and by Him who sits upon it." 
Matthew23:23 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier provisions of the Law: justice and mercy and faithfulness; but these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others." 
Matthew23:24 You blind guides, who strain out a gnat but swallow a camel!" 
Matthew23:25 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of robbery and self-indulgence." 
Matthew23:26 You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the dish, so that the outside of it may become clean also." 
Matthew23:27 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs which on the outside appear beautiful, but inside they are full of dead men’s bones and all uncleanness." 
Matthew23:28 In this way, you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness." 
Matthew23:29 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous," 
Matthew23:30 and say, ‘If we had been living in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partners with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’" 
Matthew23:31 So you bear witness against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets." 
Matthew23:32 Fill up, then, the measure of the guilt of your fathers." 
Matthew23:33 You serpents, you brood of vipers, how will you escape the sentence of hell?" 
Matthew23:34 “On account of this, behold, I am sending you prophets and wise men and scribes; some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will flog in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city," 
Matthew23:35 so that upon you may fall the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar." 
Matthew23:36 Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation." 
Matthew23:37 “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you did not want it." 
Matthew23:38 Behold, your house is being left to you desolate!" 
Matthew23:39 For I say to you, from now on you will not see Me until you say, ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’”" 
Matthew24:1 And coming out from the temple, Jesus was going along, and His disciples came up to point out the temple buildings to Him." 
Matthew24:2 And He answered and said to them, “Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, not one stone here will be left upon another, which will not be torn down.”" 
Matthew24:3 Now as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying, “Tell us, when will these things happen, and what will be the sign of Your coming and of the end of the age?”" 
Matthew24:4 And Jesus answered and said to them, “See to it that no one deceives you." 
Matthew24:5 For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am the Christ,’ and will deceive many." 
Matthew24:6 And you are going to hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for those things must take place, but that is not yet the end." 
Matthew24:7 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and in various places there will be famines and earthquakes." 
Matthew24:8 But all these things are merely the beginning of birth pains. 
Matthew24:9 “Then they will deliver you to tribulation, and will kill you, and you will be hated by all nations because of My name." 
Matthew24:10 And at that time many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another. 
Matthew24:11 Many false prophets will arise and will deceive many. 
Matthew24:12 And because lawlessness is multiplied, most people’s love will grow cold." 
Matthew24:13 But the one who endures to the end, he will be saved." 
Matthew24:14 And this gospel of the kingdom shall be proclaimed in the whole world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come." 
Matthew24:15 “Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand)," 
Matthew24:16 then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains. 
Matthew24:16 then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains. 
Matthew24:17 Whoever is on the housetop must not go down to get the things out that are in his house. 
Matthew24:18 And whoever is in the field must not turn back to get his garment. 
Matthew24:19 But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days! 
Matthew24:20 But pray that your flight will not be in the winter, or on a Sabbath." 
Matthew24:21 For then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now, nor ever will." 
Matthew24:22 And unless those days had been cut short, no life would have been saved; but for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short." 
Matthew24:23 Then if anyone says to you, ‘Behold, here is the Christ,’ or ‘There He is,’ do not believe him." 
Matthew24:24 For false christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders, so as to deceive, if possible, even the elect." 
Matthew24:25 Behold, I have told you in advance." 
Matthew24:26 Therefore, if they say to you, ‘Behold, He is in the wilderness,’ do not go out, or, ‘Behold, He is in the inner rooms,’ do not believe them." 
Matthew24:27 For just as the lightning comes from the east and appears even to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be." 
Matthew24:28 Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather." 
Matthew24:29 “But immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken." 
Matthew24:30 And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory." 
Matthew24:31 And He will send forth His angels with a great trumpet and they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other." 
Matthew24:32 “Now learn the parable from the fig tree: when its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near;" 
Matthew24:33 so, you too, when you see all these things, recognize that He is near, right at the door." 
Matthew24:34 Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place." 
Matthew24:35 Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away." 
Matthew24:36 “But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone." 
Matthew24:37 For just as the days of Noah were, so the coming of the Son of Man will be." 
Matthew24:38 For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark," 
Matthew24:39 and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away; so will the coming of the Son of Man be. 
Matthew24:40 Then there will be two in the field; one will be taken, and one will be left." 
Matthew24:41 Two women will be grinding grain at the mill; one will be taken and one will be left. 
Matthew24:42 “Therefore stay awake, for you do not know which day your Lord is coming." 
Matthew24:43 But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what time of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have allowed his house to be broken into." 
Matthew24:44 For this reason you also must be ready; for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not think He will. 
Matthew24:45 “Who then is the faithful and prudent slave whom his master put in charge of his household to give them their food at the proper time? 
Matthew24:46 Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing when he comes. 
Matthew24:47 Truly I say to you that he will put him in charge of all his possessions. 
Matthew24:48 But if that evil slave says in his heart, ‘My master is not coming for a long time,’" 
Matthew24:49 and begins to beat his fellow slaves and eat and drink with drunkards; 
Matthew24:50 the master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour which he does not know," 
Matthew24:51 and will cut him in pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew25:1 “Then the kingdom of heaven may be compared to ten virgins, who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom." 
Matthew25:2 Now five of them were foolish, and five were prudent." 
Matthew25:3 For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them," 
Matthew25:4 but the prudent took oil in flasks along with their lamps. 
Matthew25:5 Now while the bridegroom was delaying, they all got drowsy and began to sleep." 
Matthew25:6 But at midnight there was a shout, ‘Behold, the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.’" 
Matthew25:7 Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. 
Matthew25:8 And the foolish said to the prudent, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’" 
Matthew25:9 But the prudent answered, saying, ‘No, there will not be enough for us and you too; go instead to the dealers and buy some for yourselves.’" 
Matthew25:10 And while they were going away to make the purchase, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast; and the door was shut." 
Matthew25:11 And later the other virgins also came, saying, ‘Lord, lord, open up for us.’" 
Matthew25:12 But he answered and said, ‘Truly I say to you, I do not know you.’" 
Matthew25:13 Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know the day nor the hour." 
Matthew25:14 “For it is just like a man about to go on a journey, who called his own slaves and handed over his possessions to them." 
Matthew25:15 And to one he gave five talents, to another, two, and to another, one, each according to his own ability; and he went on his journey." 
Matthew25:16 Immediately the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them, and gained five more talents." 
Matthew25:17 In the same manner the one who had received the two talents gained two more. 
Matthew25:18 But he who received the one talent went away, and dug a hole in the ground and hid his master’s money." 
Matthew25:19 “Now after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. 
Matthew25:20 And the one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, ‘Master, you handed five talents over to me. See, I have gained five more talents.’" 
Matthew25:21 His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things; enter into the joy of your master.’" 
Matthew25:22 “Also the one who had received the two talents came up and said, ‘Master, you handed two talents over to me. See, I have gained two more talents.’" 
Matthew25:23 His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things; enter into the joy of your master.’" 
Matthew25:24 “And the one also who had received the one talent came up and said, ‘Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you scattered no seed." 
Matthew25:25 And I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the ground. See, you have what is yours.’" 
Matthew25:26 “But his master answered and said to him, ‘You wicked, lazy slave, you knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I scattered no seed." 
Matthew25:27 Therefore, you ought to have put my money in the bank, and on my arrival I would have received my money back with interest." 
Matthew25:28 Therefore take away the talent from him, and give it to the one who has the ten talents.’" 
Matthew25:29 “For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he will have an abundance; but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away." 
Matthew25:30 And throw out the worthless slave into the outer darkness; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew25:31 “But when the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the angels with Him, then He will sit on His glorious throne." 
Matthew25:32 And all the nations will be gathered before Him; and He will separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats;" 
Matthew25:33 and He will put the sheep on His right, and the goats on the left." 
Matthew25:34 “Then the King will say to those on His right, ‘Come, you who are blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom, which has been prepared for you from the foundation of the world." 
Matthew25:35 For I was hungry, and you gave Me something to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave Me something to drink; I was a stranger, and you invited Me in;" 
Matthew25:36 naked, and you clothed Me; I was sick, and you visited Me; I was in prison, and you came to Me.’" 
Matthew25:37 Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see You hungry, and feed You, or thirsty, and give You something to drink?" 
Matthew25:38 And when did we see You a stranger, and invite You in, or naked, and clothe You?" 
Matthew25:39 And when did we see You sick, or in prison, and come to You?’" 
Matthew25:40 And the King will answer and say to them, ‘Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of these brothers of Mine, even the least of them, you did it to Me.’" 
Matthew25:41 “Then He will also say to those on His left, ‘Depart from Me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels;" 
Matthew25:42 for I was hungry, and you gave Me nothing to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave Me nothing to drink;" 
Matthew25:43 I was a stranger, and you did not invite Me in; naked, and you did not clothe Me; sick, and in prison, and you did not visit Me.’" 
Matthew25:44 Then they themselves also will answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see You hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not take care of You?’" 
Matthew25:45 Then He will answer them, saying, ‘Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to Me.’" 
Matthew25:46 And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”" 
Matthew26:1 Now it happened that when Jesus had finished all these words, He said to His disciples," 
Matthew26:2 “You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man is to be delivered over for crucifixion.”" 
Matthew26:3 Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together in the court of the high priest, named Caiaphas;" 
Matthew26:4 and they plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth and kill Him. 
Matthew26:5 But they were saying, “Not during the festival, lest a riot occur among the people.”" 
Matthew26:6 Now when Jesus was in Bethany, at the home of Simon the leper," 
Matthew26:7 a woman came to Him with an alabaster jar of very costly perfume, and she poured it on His head as He reclined at the table." 
Matthew26:8 But when the disciples saw this, they were indignant, saying, “Why this waste?" 
Matthew26:9 For this perfume might have been sold for a high price and the money given to the poor.” 
Matthew26:10 But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, “Why do you bother the woman? For she has done a good work to Me." 
Matthew26:11 For you always have the poor with you; but you do not always have Me. 
Matthew26:12 For when she poured this perfume on My body, she did it to prepare Me for burial." 
Matthew26:13 Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of in memory of her.”" 
Matthew26:14 Then one of the twelve, named Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests" 
Matthew26:15 and said, “What are you willing to give me to deliver Him to you?” And they weighed out thirty pieces of silver to him." 
Matthew26:16 And from then on he began looking for a good opportunity to betray Jesus. 
Matthew26:17 Now on the first day of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Where do You want us to prepare for You to eat the Passover?”" 
Matthew26:18 And He said, “Go into the city to a certain man, and say to him, ‘The Teacher says, “My time is near; I am keeping the Passover at your house with My disciples.”’”" 
Matthew26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them; and they prepared the Passover. 
Matthew26:20 Now when evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the twelve disciples." 
Matthew26:21 And as they were eating, He said, “Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me.”" 
Matthew26:22 And being deeply grieved, they each one began to say to Him, “Surely not I, Lord?”" 
Matthew26:23 And He answered and said, “He who dipped his hand with Me in the bowl is the one who will betray Me." 
Matthew26:24 The Son of Man is going, just as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born.”" 
Matthew26:25 And Judas, who was betraying Him, answered and said, “Surely not I, Rabbi?” Jesus said to him, “You yourself said it.”" 
Matthew26:26 Now while they were eating, Jesus took some bread, and after a blessing, He broke it. And giving it to the disciples, He said, “Take, eat; this is My body.”" 
Matthew26:27 And when He had taken a cup and given thanks, He gave it to them, saying, “Drink from it, all of you;" 
Matthew26:28 for this is My blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for forgiveness of sins." 
Matthew26:29 But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in My Father’s kingdom.”" 
Matthew26:30 And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives." 
Matthew26:31 Then Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away because of Me this night, for it is written, ‘I will strike down the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered.’" 
Matthew26:32 But after I have been raised, I will go ahead of you to Galilee.”" 
Matthew26:33 But Peter answered and said to Him, “Even though all may fall away because of You, I will never fall away.”" 
Matthew26:34 Jesus said to him, “Truly I say to you that this very night, before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.”" 
Matthew26:35 Peter said to Him, “Even if I have to die with You, I will not deny You.” All the disciples said the same thing too." 
Matthew26:36 Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to His disciples, “Sit here while I go over there and pray.”" 
Matthew26:37 And He took with Him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be grieved and distressed." 
Matthew26:38 Then He said to them, “My soul is deeply grieved, to the point of death; remain here and keep watch with Me.”" 
Matthew26:39 And He went a little beyond them, and fell on His face and prayed, saying, “My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me; yet not as I will, but as You will.”" 
Matthew26:40 And He came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “So, you men could not keep watch with Me for one hour?" 
Matthew26:41 Keep watching and praying that you may not enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”" 
Matthew26:42 He went away again a second time and prayed, saying, “My Father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it, Your will be done.”" 
Matthew26:43 And again He came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy." 
Matthew26:44 And He left them again, and went away and prayed a third time, saying the same thing once more." 
Matthew26:45 Then He came to the disciples and said to them, “Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour is at hand and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners." 
Matthew26:46 Get up, let us go; behold, the one who betrays Me is at hand!”" 
Matthew26:47 And while He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came up, and with him was a large crowd with swords and clubs, who came from the chief priests and elders of the people." 
Matthew26:48 Now he who was betraying Him gave them a sign, saying, “Whomever I kiss, He is the one; seize Him.”" 
Matthew26:49 And immediately Judas went to Jesus and said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” and kissed Him." 
Matthew26:50 And Jesus said to him, “Friend, do what you have come for.” Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized Him." 
Matthew26:51 And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew out his sword and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his ear." 
Matthew26:52 Then Jesus said to him, “Put your sword back into its place; for all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword." 
Matthew26:53 Or do you think that I cannot appeal to My Father, and He will at once put at My disposal more than twelve legions of angels?" 
Matthew26:54 Therefore, how will the Scriptures be fulfilled, which say that it must happen this way?”" 
Matthew26:55 At that time Jesus said to the crowds, “Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest Me as you would against a robber? Every day I used to sit in the temple teaching and you did not seize Me." 
Matthew26:56 But all this has taken place in order that the Scriptures of the prophets would be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples left Him and fled. 
Matthew26:57 Now those who had seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together." 
Matthew26:58 But Peter was following Him at a distance as far as the courtyard of the high priest, and entered in, and sat down with the officers to see the outcome." 
Matthew26:59 Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus, so that they might put Him to death." 
Matthew26:60 And they did not find any, even though many false witnesses came forward. But later on two came forward," 
Matthew26:61 and said, “This man stated, ‘I am able to destroy the sanctuary of God and to rebuild it in three days.’”" 
Matthew26:62 And the high priest stood up and said to Him, “Do You not answer? What are these men testifying against You?”" 
Matthew26:63 But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest said to Him, “I put You under oath by the living God, that You tell us whether You are the Christ, the Son of God.”" 
Matthew26:64 Jesus said to him, “You yourself said it; nevertheless I tell you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.”" 
Matthew26:65 Then the high priest tore his garments and said, “He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy;" 
Matthew26:66 what do you think?” They answered and said, “He deserves death!”" 
Matthew26:67 Then they spat in His face and beat Him with their fists; and others slapped Him," 
Matthew26:68 and said, “Prophesy to us, O Christ; who is the one who hit You?”" 
Matthew26:69 Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant-girl came to him and said, “You too were with Jesus the Galilean.”" 
Matthew26:70 But he denied it before them all, saying, “I do not know what you are talking about.”" 
Matthew26:71 And when he had gone out to the gateway, another servant-girl saw him and said to those who were there, “This man was with Jesus of Nazareth.”" 
Matthew26:72 And again he denied it with an oath, “I do not know the man.”" 
Matthew26:73 A little later the bystanders came up and said to Peter, “Surely you too are one of them; for even the way you talk gives you away.”" 
Matthew26:74 Then he began to curse and swear, “I do not know the man!” And immediately a rooster crowed." 
Matthew26:75 And Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, “Before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” And he went out and cried bitterly." 
Matthew27:1 Now when morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel together against Jesus to put Him to death;" 
Matthew27:2 and they bound Him, and led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate the governor." 
Matthew27:3 Then when Judas, who had betrayed Him, saw that He had been condemned, he felt remorse and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders," 
Matthew27:4 saying, “I have sinned by betraying innocent blood.” But they said, “What is that to us? See to that yourself!”" 
Matthew27:5 And he threw the pieces of silver into the sanctuary and departed; and he went away and hanged himself. 
Matthew27:6 And the chief priests took the pieces of silver and said, “It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury, since it is the price of blood.”" 
Matthew27:7 And taking counsel together, they bought with the money the Potter’s Field as a burial place for strangers." 
Matthew27:8 For this reason that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day. 
Matthew27:9 Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying, “And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of the one whose price had been set by the sons of Israel;" 
Matthew27:10 and they gave them for the Potter’s Field, as the Lord directed me.”" 
Matthew27:11 Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor questioned Him, saying, “Are You the King of the Jews?” And Jesus said to him, “You yourself say it.”" 
Matthew27:12 And while He was being accused by the chief priests and elders, He did not answer." 
Matthew27:13 Then Pilate said to Him, “Do You not hear how many things they testify against You?”" 
Matthew27:14 And He did not answer him with regard to even a single charge, so the governor marveled greatly." 
Matthew27:15 Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. 
Matthew27:16 And at that time they were holding a notorious prisoner, called Barabbas." 
Matthew27:17 So when the people gathered together, Pilate said to them, “Whom do you want me to release for you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?”" 
Matthew27:18 For he knew that because of envy they had delivered Him over. 
Matthew27:19 Now while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message, saying, “Have nothing to do with that righteous Man; for last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of Him.”" 
Matthew27:20 But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds to ask for Barabbas and to put Jesus to death. 
Matthew27:21 But the governor answered and said to them, “Which of the two do you want me to release for you?” And they said, “Barabbas.”" 
Matthew27:22 Pilate said to them, “Then, what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?” They all said, “Let Him be crucified!”" 
Matthew27:23 And he said, “Why, what evil did He do?” But they were crying out all the more, saying, “Let Him be crucified!”" 
Matthew27:24 Now when Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, “I am innocent of this man’s blood; see to that yourselves.”" 
Matthew27:25 And all the people answered and said, “His blood be on us and on our children!”" 
Matthew27:26 Then he released Barabbas for them; but after having Jesus scourged, he delivered Him over to be crucified." 
Matthew27:27 Then when the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium, they gathered the whole Roman cohort around Him." 
Matthew27:28 And they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe on Him. 
Matthew27:29 And after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on His head, and a reed in His right hand; and they knelt down before Him and mocked Him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!”" 
Matthew27:30 And they spat on Him, and took the reed and began to beat Him on the head." 
Matthew27:31 When they had mocked Him, they took the scarlet robe off Him and put His own garments back on Him, and led Him away to crucify Him." 
Matthew27:32 And as they were coming out, they found a man of Cyrene named Simon, whom they pressed into service to bear His cross." 
Matthew27:33 And when they came to a place called Golgotha, which means Place of a Skull," 
Matthew27:34 they gave Him wine to drink mixed with gall; and after tasting it, He did not want to drink." 
Matthew27:35 And when they had crucified Him, they divided up His garments among themselves by casting lots." 
Matthew27:36 And sitting down, they began to keep watch over Him there." 
Matthew27:37 And above His head they put up the charge against Him which read, “THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.”" 
Matthew27:38 At that time two robbers were crucified with Him, one on the right and one on the left." 
Matthew27:39 And those passing by were blaspheming Him, shaking their heads" 
Matthew27:40 and saying, “You who are going to destroy the sanctuary and rebuild it in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross.”" 
Matthew27:41 In the same way the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking Him and saying," 
Matthew27:42 “He saved others; He cannot save Himself. He is the King of Israel; let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in Him." 
Matthew27:43 He trusts in God; let God rescue Him now, if He delights in Him; for He said, ‘I am the Son of God.’”" 
Matthew27:44 And the robbers who had been crucified with Him were also insulting Him with the same words. 
Matthew27:45 Now from the sixth hour darkness fell upon all the land until the ninth hour. 
Matthew27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?” that is, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?”" 
Matthew27:47 And some of those who were standing there, when they heard it, began saying, “This man is calling for Elijah.”" 
Matthew27:48 And immediately one of them ran, and taking a sponge, he filled it with sour wine and put it on a reed, and gave Him a drink." 
Matthew27:49 But the rest of them were saying, “Let us see whether Elijah will come to save Him.”" 
Matthew27:50 And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice, and yielded up His spirit." 
Matthew27:51 And behold, the veil of the sanctuary was torn in two from top to bottom; and the earth shook and the rocks were split." 
Matthew27:52 And the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised;" 
Matthew27:53 and coming out of the tombs after His resurrection they entered the holy city and appeared to many. 
Matthew27:54 Now the centurion, and those who were with him keeping guard over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that were happening, became very frightened and said, “Truly this was God’s Son!”" 
Matthew27:55 And many women were there looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee while ministering to Him." 
Matthew27:56 Among them was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee." 
Matthew27:56 Among them was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee." 
Matthew27:57 Now when it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus." 
Matthew27:58 This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. 
Matthew27:59 And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth," 
Matthew27:60 and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock; and he rolled a large stone against the entrance of the tomb and went away." 
Matthew27:61 And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the grave." 
Matthew27:62 Now on the next day, the day after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate," 
Matthew27:63 and said, “Sir, we remember that when He was still alive that deceiver said, ‘After three days I am to rise again.’" 
Matthew27:64 Therefore, order for the grave to be made secure until the third day, lest His disciples come and steal Him away and say to the people, ‘He has risen from the dead,’ and the last deception will be worse than the first.”" 
Matthew27:65 Pilate said to them, “You have a guard; go, make it as secure as you know how.”" 
Matthew27:66 And they went and made the grave secure, and along with the guard they set a seal on the stone." 
Matthew28:1 Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave." 
Matthew28:2 And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it." 
Matthew28:3 And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow." 
Matthew28:4 And the guards quaked from fear of him and became like dead men. 
Matthew28:5 And the angel answered and said to the women, “Do not be afraid; for I know that you are looking for Jesus who has been crucified." 
Matthew28:6 He is not here, for He has risen, just as He said. Come, see the place where He was lying." 
Matthew28:7 And go quickly and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead; and behold, He is going ahead of you into Galilee, there you will see Him; behold, I have told you.”" 
Matthew28:8 And they left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy and ran to report it to His disciples. 
Matthew28:9 And behold, Jesus met them and said, “Greetings!” And they came up and took hold of His feet and worshiped Him." 
Matthew28:10 Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid; go and report to My brothers to leave for Galilee, and there they will see Me.”" 
Matthew28:11 Now while they were on their way, behold, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened." 
Matthew28:12 And when they had assembled with the elders and took counsel together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers," 
Matthew28:13 and said, “You are to say, ‘His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we were asleep.’" 
Matthew28:14 And if this is heard before the governor, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble.”" 
Matthew28:15 And they took the money and did as they had been instructed; and this story was widely spread among the Jews, and is to this day." 
Matthew28:16 But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee, to the mountain which Jesus had designated." 
Matthew28:17 And when they saw Him, they worshiped Him; but some doubted." 
Matthew28:18 And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, “All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth." 
Matthew28:19 Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit," 
Matthew28:20 teaching them to keep all that I commanded you; and behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.”" 
Mark1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God." 
Mark1:2 As it is written in Isaiah the prophet: “Behold, I send My messenger ahead of You, Who will prepare Your way;" 
Mark1:3 The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of the Lord, Make His paths straight.’”" 
Mark1:4 John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
Mark1:4 John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
Mark1:5 And all the region of Judea was going out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins." 
Mark1:5 And all the region of Judea was going out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins." 
Mark1:6 And John was clothed with camel’s hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and was eating locusts and wild honey. 
Mark1:6 And John was clothed with camel’s hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and was eating locusts and wild honey. 
Mark1:7 And he was preaching, saying, “After me One is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to stoop down and untie the strap of His sandals." 
Mark1:8 I baptized you with water; but He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.” 
Mark1:9 Now it happened that in those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
Mark1:9 Now it happened that in those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
Mark1:10 And immediately coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens opening, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon Him;" 
Mark1:11 and a voice came out of the heavens: “You are My beloved Son, in You I am well-pleased.”" 
Mark1:12 And immediately the Spirit drove Him to go out into the wilderness. 
Mark1:13 And He was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan; and He was with the wild beasts, and the angels were ministering to Him." 
Mark1:14 Now after John had been delivered up into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God," 
Mark1:14 Now after John had been delivered up into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God," 
Mark1:15 and saying, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel.”" 
Mark1:16 As He was going along by the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net in the sea; for they were fishermen." 
Mark1:17 And Jesus said to them, “Follow Me, and I will make you become fishers of men.”" 
Mark1:18 And immediately they left their nets and followed Him. 
Mark1:19 And going on a little farther, He saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets." 
Mark1:19 And going on a little farther, He saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets." 
Mark1:19 And going on a little farther, He saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets." 
Mark1:20 And immediately He called them; and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went away to follow Him." 
Mark1:21 And they went into Capernaum; and immediately on the Sabbath He entered the synagogue and began to teach. 
Mark1:22 And they were astonished at His teaching; for He was teaching them as one having authority, and not as the scribes." 
Mark1:23 And immediately there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit; and he cried out," 
Mark1:24 saying, “What do we have to do with You, Jesus the Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are—the Holy One of God!”" 
Mark1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be quiet, and come out of him!”" 
Mark1:26 And throwing him into convulsions, the unclean spirit cried out with a loud voice and came out of him." 
Mark1:27 And they were all amazed, so that they were arguing among themselves, saying, “What is this? A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey Him.”" 
Mark1:28 And immediately the news about Him spread everywhere into all the surrounding district of Galilee. 
Mark1:29 And immediately after they came out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John." 
Mark1:29 And immediately after they came out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John." 
Mark1:29 And immediately after they came out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John." 
Mark1:30 Now Simon’s mother-in-law was lying sick with a fever; and immediately they spoke to Jesus about her. 
Mark1:31 And He came to her and raised her up, taking her by the hand, and the fever left her, and she began waiting on them." 
Mark1:32 Now when evening came, after the sun had set, they began bringing to Him all who were ill and those who were demon-possessed." 
Mark1:33 And the whole city had gathered at the door. 
Mark1:34 And He healed many who were ill with various diseases, and cast out many demons; and He was not permitting the demons to speak, because they knew who He was." 
Mark1:35 And in the early morning, while it was still dark, Jesus rose up, went out of the house, and went away to a desolate place, and was praying there." 
Mark1:36 And Simon and his companions searched for Him; 
Mark1:37 and they found Him, and said to Him, “Everyone is looking for You.”" 
Mark1:38 And He said to them, “Let us go elsewhere, to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also; for that is what I came out for.”" 
Mark1:39 And He went, preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and casting out the demons." 
Mark1:40 And a leper came to Jesus, pleading with Him and falling on his knees before Him, and saying, “If You are willing, You can make me clean.”" 
Mark1:41 And moved with compassion, He stretched out His hand and touched him, and said to him, “I am willing; be cleansed.”" 
Mark1:42 And immediately the leprosy left him and he was cleansed. 
Mark1:43 And He sternly warned him and immediately sent him away," 
Mark1:44 and He said to him, “See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”" 
Mark1:45 But he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread the news around, to such an extent that Jesus could no longer publicly enter a city, but stayed out in desolate areas; and they were coming to Him from everywhere." 
Mark2:1 And when He had come back to Capernaum several days afterward, it was heard that He was at home." 
Mark2:2 And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room, not even near the door; and He was speaking the word to them." 
Mark2:3 And they came, bringing to Him a paralytic, carried by four men." 
Mark2:4 And being unable to bring him to Jesus because of the crowd, they removed the roof over where He was; and when they had dug an opening, they let down the mat where the paralytic was lying." 
Mark2:5 And Jesus seeing their faith said to the paralytic, “Child, your sins are forgiven.”" 
Mark2:6 But some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts," 
Mark2:7 “Why does this man speak that way? He is blaspheming; who can forgive sins but God alone?” 
Mark2:8 Immediately Jesus, aware in His spirit that they were reasoning that way within themselves, said to them, “Why are you reasoning about these things in your hearts?" 
Mark2:9 Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven’; or to say, ‘Get up, and pick up your mat and walk’?" 
Mark2:10 But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—He said to the paralytic," 
Mark2:11 “I say to you, get up, pick up your mat, and go to your home.”" 
Mark2:12 And he got up and immediately picked up the mat and went out before everyone, so that they were all amazed and were glorifying God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this.”" 
Mark2:13 And He went out again by the seashore; and the entire crowd was coming to Him, and He was teaching them." 
Mark2:14 And as He passed by, He saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting in the tax office, and He said to him, “Follow Me!” And he stood up and followed Him." 
Mark2:15 And it happened that as He was reclining at the table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and His disciples. For there were many of them, and they were following Him." 
Mark2:16 And when the scribes of the Pharisees saw that He was eating with the sinners and tax collectors, they were saying to His disciples, “He is eating and drinking with tax collectors and sinners!”" 
Mark2:17 And hearing this, Jesus said to them, “Those who are healthy do not have need for a physician, but only those who are sick; I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”" 
Mark2:18 And John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting; and they came and said to Him, “Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Mark2:18 And John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting; and they came and said to Him, “Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?”" 
Mark2:19 And Jesus said to them, “Can the attendants of the bridegroom fast when the bridegroom is with them? So long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast." 
Mark2:20 But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day." 
Mark2:21 “No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; otherwise that patch pulls away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear results." 
Mark2:22 And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is lost and the skins as well; but one puts new wine into fresh wineskins.”" 
Mark2:23 And it happened that He was passing through the grainfields on the Sabbath, and His disciples began to make their way along while picking the heads of grain." 
Mark2:24 And the Pharisees were saying to Him, “Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath?”" 
Mark2:25 And He said to them, “Have you never read what David did when he was in need and he and his companions became hungry;" 
Mark2:26 how he entered the house of God around the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the consecrated bread, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except the priests, and he also gave it to those who were with him?”" 
Mark2:27 And Jesus was saying to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath." 
Mark2:28 Consequently the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.” 
Mark3:1 And He entered again into a synagogue; and a man was there with a withered hand. 
Mark3:2 And they were watching Him to see if He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse Him." 
Mark3:3 And He said to the man with the withered hand, “Get up and come forward!”" 
Mark3:4 And He said to them, “Is it lawful to do good or to do harm on the Sabbath, to save a life or to kill?” But they kept silent." 
Mark3:5 And after looking around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored." 
Mark3:6 And the Pharisees went out and immediately began taking counsel together with the Herodians against Him, as to how they might destroy Him." 
Mark3:7 And Jesus withdrew to the sea with His disciples; and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judea," 
Mark3:7 And Jesus withdrew to the sea with His disciples; and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judea," 
Mark3:8 and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and beyond the Jordan, and the vicinity of Tyre and Sidon, a great number of people heard of all that He was doing and came to Him." 
Mark3:9 And He told His disciples that a boat should stand ready for Him because of the crowd, so that they would not crowd Him;" 
Mark3:10 for He had healed many, with the result that all those who had afflictions pressed around Him in order to touch Him." 
Mark3:11 And whenever the unclean spirits were seeing Him, they would fall down before Him and cry out, saying, “You are the Son of God!”" 
Mark3:12 And He earnestly warned them not to tell who He was. 
Mark3:13 And He went up on the mountain and summoned those whom He Himself wanted, and they came to Him." 
Mark3:14 And He appointed twelve (whom He also named apostles) to be with Him and to send them out to preach," 
Mark3:15 and to have authority to cast out the demons. 
Mark3:16 And He appointed the twelve: Simon (to whom He gave the name Peter)," 
Mark3:17 and James, the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James (to them He gave the name Boanerges, which means, “Sons of Thunder”);" 
Mark3:17 and James, the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James (to them He gave the name Boanerges, which means, “Sons of Thunder”);" 
Mark3:17 and James, the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James (to them He gave the name Boanerges, which means, “Sons of Thunder”);" 
Mark3:18 and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;" 
Mark3:18 and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;" 
Mark3:18 and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;" 
Mark3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him." 
Mark3:20 And He came home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat a meal." 
Mark3:21 And when His own people heard this, they went out to take custody of Him; for they were saying, “He has lost His senses.”" 
Mark3:22 And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, “He is possessed by Beelzebul,” and “He casts out the demons by the ruler of the demons.”" 
Mark3:23 And He called them to Himself and began speaking to them in parables, “How can Satan cast out Satan?" 
Mark3:24 And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand." 
Mark3:25 And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand." 
Mark3:26 And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but he is finished!" 
Mark3:27 But no one can enter the strong man’s house and plunder his property unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house." 
Mark3:28 “Truly I say to you, all sins shall be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they utter;" 
Mark3:29 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin”—" 
Mark3:30 because they were saying, “He has an unclean spirit.”" 
Mark3:31 Then His mother and His brothers arrived, and standing outside they sent word to Him, calling Him." 
Mark3:32 And a crowd was sitting around Him, and they said to Him, “Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are outside looking for You.”" 
Mark3:33 And answering them, He said, “Who are My mother and My brothers?”" 
Mark3:34 And looking about at those who were sitting around Him, He said, “Behold My mother and My brothers!" 
Mark3:35 For whoever does the will of God, he is My brother and sister and mother.”" 
Mark4:1 And He began to teach again by the sea. And such a very large crowd gathered to Him that He got into a boat in the sea and sat down; and the whole crowd was by the sea on the land. 
Mark4:2 And He was teaching them many things in parables, and was saying to them in His teaching," 
Mark4:3 “Listen to this! Behold, the sower went out to sow;" 
Mark4:4 and it happened that as he was sowing, some seed fell beside the road, and the birds came and ate it up." 
Mark4:5 And other seed fell on the rocky ground where it did not have much soil; and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of soil. 
Mark4:6 And after the sun rose, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away." 
Mark4:7 And other seed fell among the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked it, and it yielded no crop." 
Mark4:8 And other seeds fell into the good soil, and as they grew up and increased, they were yielding a crop and produced thirty, sixty, and a hundredfold.”" 
Mark4:9 And He was saying, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Mark4:10 And when He was alone, His followers, along with the twelve, began asking Him about the parables." 
Mark4:11 And He was saying to them, “To you has been given the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, everything comes in parables," 
Mark4:12 so that while seeing, they may see and not perceive, and while hearing, they may hear and not understand, lest they return and be forgiven.”" 
Mark4:13 And He said to them, “Do you not understand this parable? How will you understand all the parables?" 
Mark4:14 The sower sows the word. 
Mark4:15 And these are the ones who are beside the road where the word is sown: when they hear, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word which has been sown in them." 
Mark4:16 And in a similar way, these are the ones being sown on the rocky places: those who, when hearing the word, immediately receive it with joy;" 
Mark4:17 and they have no root in themselves, but are only temporary; then, when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately they fall away." 
Mark4:18 And others are those being sown among the thorns; these are the ones who have heard the word," 
Mark4:19 but the worries of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for anything else enter in and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful." 
Mark4:20 And those are the ones which were sown on the good soil: they who hear the word and accept it and are bearing fruit, thirty, sixty, and a hundredfold.”" 
Mark4:21 And He was saying to them, “Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Is it not to be put on the lampstand?" 
Mark4:22 For nothing is hidden, except to be revealed; nor has anything been secret, but that it would come to light." 
Mark4:23 If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Mark4:24 And He was saying to them, “Beware what you listen to. By your standard of measure it will be measured to you, and more will be given to you." 
Mark4:25 For whoever has, to him more shall be given; and whoever does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him.”" 
Mark4:26 And He was saying, “The kingdom of God is like a man who casts seed upon the soil;" 
Mark4:27 and he sleeps and rises, night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows—how, he himself does not know." 
Mark4:28 The soil produces crops by itself; first the blade, then the head, then the mature grain in the head." 
Mark4:29 But when the grain is ripe, he immediately puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come.”" 
Mark4:30 And He was saying, “How shall we compare the kingdom of God, or by what parable shall we present it?" 
Mark4:31 It is like a mustard seed, which, when sown upon the soil, though it is smallest of all the seeds that are upon the soil," 
Mark4:32 yet when it is sown, it grows up and becomes largest of all the garden plants and forms large branches; so that the birds of the air can nest under its shade.”" 
Mark4:33 And with many such parables He was speaking the word to them, as they were able to hear it;" 
Mark4:34 and He was not speaking to them without a parable; but He was explaining everything privately to His own disciples. 
Mark4:35 And on that day, when evening came, He said to them, “Let us go over to the other side.”" 
Mark4:36 And leaving the crowd, they took Him along with them in the boat, just as He was; and other boats were with Him." 
Mark4:37 And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat so that the boat was already filling up." 
Mark4:38 And Jesus Himself was in the stern, sleeping on the cushion; and they got Him up and said to Him, “Teacher, do You not care that we are perishing?”" 
Mark4:39 And He woke up and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, “Silence! Be still.” And the wind died down and it became perfectly calm." 
Mark4:40 And He said to them, “Why are you so cowardly? Do you still have no faith?”" 
Mark4:41 And they became very afraid and were saying to one another, “Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?”" 
Mark5:1 Then they came to the other side of the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes." 
Mark5:2 And when He got out of the boat, immediately a man from the tombs with an unclean spirit met Him," 
Mark5:3 who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no one was able to bind him anymore, even with a chain;" 
Mark5:4 because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him and the shackles broken in pieces, and no one was strong enough to subdue him." 
Mark5:5 And constantly, night and day, among the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out and gashing himself with stones." 
Mark5:6 And seeing Jesus from a distance, he ran up and bowed down before Him;" 
Mark5:7 and crying out with a loud voice, he said, “What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore You by God, do not torment me!”" 
Mark5:8 For He had been saying to him, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!”" 
Mark5:9 And He was asking him, “What is your name?” And he said to Him, “My name is Legion; for we are many.”" 
Mark5:10 And he began pleading with Him earnestly not to send them out of the region. 
Mark5:11 Now there was a large herd of swine feeding nearby on the mountain. 
Mark5:12 And the demons pleaded with Him, saying, “Send us into the swine so that we may enter them.”" 
Mark5:13 And Jesus gave them permission. And coming out, the unclean spirits entered the swine; and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, about two thousand of them; and they were drowned in the sea." 
Mark5:14 And their herdsmen ran away and reported it in the city and in the countryside. And the people came to see what it was that had happened. 
Mark5:15 And they came to Jesus and observed the demon-possessed man sitting down, clothed and in his right mind, the very man who had the “legion”; and they became frightened." 
Mark5:16 And those who had seen it recounted to them how this had happened to the demon-possessed man, and all about the swine." 
Mark5:17 And they began to plead with Him to leave their region. 
Mark5:18 And as He was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed was pleading with Him that he might accompany Him." 
Mark5:19 And He did not let him, but He said to him, “Go home to your people and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He had mercy on you.”" 
Mark5:20 And he went away and began to preach in the Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him; and everyone was marveling. 
Mark5:21 And when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a large crowd gathered around Him; and so He stayed by the seashore." 
Mark5:22 And one of the synagogue officials named Jairus came up, and on seeing Him, fell at His feet" 
Mark5:23 and pleaded with Him earnestly, saying, “My little daughter is at the point of death; please come, that by coming, You may lay Your hands on her, so that she will be saved and live.”" 
Mark5:24 And He went off with him; and a large crowd was following Him and pressing in on Him. 
Mark5:25 And a woman—who had a hemorrhage for twelve years 
Mark5:26 and had endured much at the hands of many physicians, and had spent all that she had and was not helped at all, but rather had grown worse—" 
Mark5:27 after hearing about Jesus, she came up in the crowd behind Him and touched His garment." 
Mark5:28 For she was saying, “If I just touch His garments, I will be saved from this.”" 
Mark5:29 And immediately the flow of her blood was dried up; and she knew within her body that she had been healed of her affliction. 
Mark5:30 And immediately Jesus, perceiving in Himself that the power proceeding from Him had gone forth, turned around in the crowd and was saying, “Who touched My garments?”" 
Mark5:31 And His disciples were saying to Him, “You see the crowd pressing in on You, and You say, ‘Who touched Me?’”" 
Mark5:32 And He was looking around to see the woman who had done this. 
Mark5:33 But the woman fearing and trembling, aware of what had happened to her, came and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth." 
Mark5:34 And He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has saved you; go in peace and be healed of your affliction.”" 
Mark5:35 While He was still speaking, they came from the house of the synagogue official, saying, “Your daughter has died; why trouble the Teacher anymore?”" 
Mark5:36 But Jesus, overhearing what had been spoken, said to the synagogue official, “Do not be afraid, only believe.”" 
Mark5:37 And He allowed no one to accompany Him, except Peter and James and John the brother of James." 
Mark5:37 And He allowed no one to accompany Him, except Peter and James and John the brother of James." 
Mark5:37 And He allowed no one to accompany Him, except Peter and James and John the brother of James." 
Mark5:38 And they came to the house of the synagogue official; and He saw a commotion, and people loudly crying and wailing." 
Mark5:39 And entering in, He said to them, “Why are you making a commotion and crying? The child has not died, but is asleep.”" 
Mark5:40 And they began laughing at Him. But putting them all out, He took along the child’s father and mother and His own companions, and entered the room where the child was." 
Mark5:41 And taking the child by the hand, He said to her, “Talitha kum!” (which translated means, “Little girl, I say to you, arise!”)." 
Mark5:42 And immediately the little girl stood up and began to walk, for she was twelve years old. And immediately they were completely astounded." 
Mark5:43 And He gave them strict orders that no one should know about this, and He said that some food should be given to her to eat." 
Mark6:1 And Jesus went out from there and came into His hometown; and His disciples followed Him. 
Mark6:2 And when the Sabbath came, He began to teach in the synagogue; and many listeners were astonished, saying, “Where did this man get these things, and what is this wisdom given to this man, and such miracles as these performed by His hands?" 
Mark6:3 Is this man not the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? Are not His sisters here with us?” And they were taking offense at Him." 
Mark6:3 Is this man not the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? Are not His sisters here with us?” And they were taking offense at Him." 
Mark6:4 And Jesus was saying to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and among his own relatives and in his own household.”" 
Mark6:5 And He could do no miracle there except that He laid His hands on a few sick people and healed them. 
Mark6:6 And He was marveling at their unbelief. And He was going around the villages teaching. 
Mark6:7 And He summoned the twelve and began to send them out in pairs, and was giving them authority over the unclean spirits;" 
Mark6:8 and He instructed them that they should take nothing for their journey, except a staff only—no bread, no bag, no money in their belt—" 
Mark6:9 but to wear sandals; and He added, “Do not put on two tunics.”" 
Mark6:10 And He was saying to them, “Wherever you enter a house, stay there until you leave town." 
Mark6:11 And any place that does not receive you or listen to you, as you go out from there, shake the dust off the soles of your feet for a testimony against them.”" 
Mark6:12 And they went out and preached that men should repent. 
Mark6:13 And they were casting out many demons and were anointing with oil many sick people and healing them. 
Mark6:14 And King Herod heard it, for His name had become well known; and people were saying, “John the Baptist has risen from the dead, and that is why these miraculous powers are at work in Him.”" 
Mark6:14 And King Herod heard it, for His name had become well known; and people were saying, “John the Baptist has risen from the dead, and that is why these miraculous powers are at work in Him.”" 
Mark6:15 But others were saying, “He is Elijah.” And others were saying, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old.”" 
Mark6:16 But when Herod heard it, he kept saying, “John, whom I beheaded, has risen!”" 
Mark6:16 But when Herod heard it, he kept saying, “John, whom I beheaded, has risen!”" 
Mark6:17 For Herod himself had sent and had John arrested and bound in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip, because he had married her." 
Mark6:17 For Herod himself had sent and had John arrested and bound in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip, because he had married her." 
Mark6:18 For John had been saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.”" 
Mark6:18 For John had been saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.”" 
Mark6:19 Now Herodias was holding a grudge against him and was wanting to put him to death and was not able; 
Mark6:20 for Herod was afraid of John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he was keeping him safe. And when he heard him, he was very perplexed; but he used to enjoy listening to him." 
Mark6:20 for Herod was afraid of John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he was keeping him safe. And when he heard him, he was very perplexed; but he used to enjoy listening to him." 
Mark6:21 And a strategic day came when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his great men and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee; 
Mark6:22 and when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his dinner guests; and the king said to the girl, “Ask me for whatever you want and I will give it to you.”" 
Mark6:23 And he swore to her, “Whatever you ask of me, I will give it to you; up to half of my kingdom.”" 
Mark6:24 And she went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask for?” And she said, “The head of John the Baptist.”" 
Mark6:24 And she went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask for?” And she said, “The head of John the Baptist.”" 
Mark6:25 And immediately she came in a hurry to the king and asked, saying, “I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.”" 
Mark6:25 And immediately she came in a hurry to the king and asked, saying, “I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.”" 
Mark6:26 And although the king was very sorry, yet because of his oaths and because of his dinner guests, he did not want to refuse her." 
Mark6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner and commanded him to bring back his head. And he went and beheaded him in the prison," 
Mark6:28 and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl; and the girl gave it to her mother." 
Mark6:29 And when his disciples heard this, they came and took away his body and laid it in a tomb." 
Mark6:30 And the apostles gathered together with Jesus; and they reported to Him all that they had done and taught. 
Mark6:31 And He said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while.” (For there were many people coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat.)" 
Mark6:32 And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves. 
Mark6:33 And the people saw them going, and many recognized them and ran there together on foot from all the cities, and got there ahead of them." 
Mark6:34 And when Jesus went ashore, He saw a large crowd, and He felt compassion for them because they were like sheep without a shepherd; and He began to teach them many things." 
Mark6:35 And when it was already quite late, His disciples came to Him and began saying, “This place is desolate and it is already quite late;" 
Mark6:36 send them away so that they may go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.” 
Mark6:37 But He answered and said to them, “You give them something to eat!” And they said to Him, “Shall we go and spend two hundred denarii on bread and give them something to eat?”" 
Mark6:38 And He said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go look!” And when they found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.”" 
Mark6:39 And He commanded them all to sit down by groups on the green grass. 
Mark6:40 And they sat down in groups of hundreds and of fifties. 
Mark6:41 And He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up toward heaven, He blessed the food and broke the loaves. And He kept giving them to the disciples to set before them, and He divided up the two fish among them all." 
Mark6:42 And they all ate and were satisfied," 
Mark6:43 and they picked up twelve full baskets of the broken pieces, and also of the fish." 
Mark6:44 And there were five thousand men who ate the loaves. 
Mark6:45 And immediately Jesus made His disciples get into the boat and go ahead of Him to the other side to Bethsaida, while He Himself was sending the crowd away." 
Mark6:46 And after bidding them farewell, He left for the mountain to pray." 
Mark6:47 And when it was evening, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and He was alone on the land." 
Mark6:48 And seeing them straining at the oars, for the wind was against them, at about the fourth watch of the night He came to them, walking on the sea; and He was intending to pass by them." 
Mark6:49 But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they thought that it was a ghost, and cried out;" 
Mark6:50 for they all saw Him and were terrified. But immediately He spoke with them and said to them, “Take courage; it is I, do not be afraid.”" 
Mark6:51 Then He got into the boat with them, and the wind stopped; and they were utterly amazed," 
Mark6:52 for they had not gained any insight about the loaves, but their heart was hardened." 
Mark6:53 And when they had crossed over they came to land at Gennesaret, and moored to the shore." 
Mark6:54 And when they got out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Him," 
Mark6:55 and ran about that whole region and began to carry here and there on their mats those who were sick, to the place they heard He was." 
Mark6:56 And wherever He was entering villages, or cities, or countryside, they were laying the sick in the marketplaces, and pleading with Him that they might just touch the fringe of His garment; and as many as touched it were being saved from their sicknesses." 
Mark7:1 And the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered around Him when they had come from Jerusalem," 
Mark7:2 and had seen that some of His disciples were eating their bread with defiled hands, that is, unwashed." 
Mark7:3 (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they carefully wash their hands, thus observing the tradition of the elders;" 
Mark7:4 and when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash themselves; and there are many other things which they have received in order to observe, such as the washing of cups and pitchers and copper pots.)" 
Mark7:5 And the Pharisees and the scribes asked Him, “Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with defiled hands?”" 
Mark7:6 And He said to them, “Rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written: ‘This people honors Me with their lips, But their heart is far away from Me." 
Mark7:7 But in vain do they worship Me, Teaching as doctrines the commands of men.’" 
Mark7:8 Leaving the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men.”" 
Mark7:9 And He was also saying to them, “You are good at setting aside the commandment of God in order to keep your tradition." 
Mark7:10 For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother’; and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, is to be put to death’;" 
Mark7:11 but you say, ‘If a man says to his father or his mother, whatever you might benefit from me is Corban (that is to say, given to God),’" 
Mark7:12 you no longer leave him to do anything for his father or his mother; 
Mark7:13 thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition which you have handed down; and you do many things such as that.” 
Mark7:14 And after He called the crowd to Him again, He began saying to them, “Listen to Me, all of you, and understand:" 
Mark7:15 there is nothing outside the man which can defile him if it goes into him; but the things which proceed out of the man are what defile the man. 
Mark7:16 [And if anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”]" 
Mark7:17 And when He had left the crowd and entered the house, His disciples were asking Him about the parable." 
Mark7:18 And He said to them, “Are you lacking understanding in this way as well? Do you not perceive that whatever goes into the man from outside cannot defile him," 
Mark7:19 because it does not go into his heart, but into his stomach, and goes to the sewer?” (Thus He declared all foods clean.)" 
Mark7:20 And He was saying, “That which proceeds out of the man, that is what defiles the man." 
Mark7:21 For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the evil thoughts, sexual immoralities, thefts, murders, adulteries," 
Mark7:22 coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness." 
Mark7:23 All these evil things proceed from within and defile the man.” 
Mark7:24 Now Jesus stood up and went away from there to the region of Tyre. And when He had entered a house, He was wanting no one to know of it; yet He could not escape notice." 
Mark7:25 But after hearing of Him, a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit immediately came and fell at His feet." 
Mark7:26 Now the woman was a Greek, of Syrophoenician descent. And she kept asking Him to cast the demon out of her daughter." 
Mark7:27 And He was saying to her, “Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not good to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”" 
Mark7:28 But she answered and said to Him, “Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the table feed on the children’s crumbs.”" 
Mark7:29 And He said to her, “Because of this answer go; the demon has gone out of your daughter.”" 
Mark7:30 And going back to her home, she found the child lying on the bed, the demon having left." 
Mark7:31 And again He went out from the region of Tyre, and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, within the region of the Decapolis." 
Mark7:32 And they brought to Him one who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, and they pleaded with Him to lay His hand on him." 
Mark7:33 And Jesus took him aside from the crowd, by himself, and put His fingers into his ears, and after spitting, He touched his tongue;" 
Mark7:34 and looking up to heaven with a sigh, He said to him, “Ephphatha!” that is, “Be opened!”" 
Mark7:35 And his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was removed, and he began speaking plainly." 
Mark7:36 And He gave them orders not to tell anyone; but the more He was ordering them, the more widely they continued to proclaim it." 
Mark7:37 And they were utterly astonished, saying, “He has done all things well; He makes even the deaf to hear and the mute to speak.”" 
Mark8:1 In those days, when there was again a large crowd and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called His disciples and said to them," 
Mark8:2 “I feel compassion for the crowd because they have remained with Me now three days and have nothing to eat. 
Mark8:3 And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way; and some of them have come from a great distance.”" 
Mark8:4 And His disciples answered Him, “Where will anyone be able to find enough bread here in this desolate place to satisfy these people?”" 
Mark8:5 And He was asking them, “How many loaves do you have?” And they said, “Seven.”" 
Mark8:6 And He directed the crowd to sit down on the ground; and taking the seven loaves, He gave thanks and broke them. And He kept giving them to His disciples to serve to them, and they served them to the crowd." 
Mark8:7 And they also had a few small fish; and after He blessed them, He ordered these to be served as well." 
Mark8:8 And they ate and were satisfied; and they picked up seven large baskets full of what was left over of the broken pieces. 
Mark8:9 Now about four thousand were there, and He sent them away." 
Mark8:10 And immediately He entered the boat with His disciples and came to the district of Dalmanutha. 
Mark8:11 And the Pharisees came out and began to argue with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven, testing Him." 
Mark8:12 And sighing deeply in His spirit, He said, “Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation.”" 
Mark8:13 And leaving them, He again embarked and went away to the other side." 
Mark8:14 And they had forgotten to take bread, and did not have more than one loaf in the boat with them." 
Mark8:15 And He was giving orders to them, saying, “Watch out! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.”" 
Mark8:16 And they began to discuss with one another the fact that they had no bread. 
Mark8:17 And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, “Why do you discuss the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Do you have a hardened heart?" 
Mark8:18 Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember," 
Mark8:19 when I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces you picked up?” They said to Him, “Twelve.”" 
Mark8:20 “When I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of broken pieces did you pick up?” And they said to Him, “Seven.”" 
Mark8:21 And He was saying to them, “Do you not yet understand?”" 
Mark8:22 And they came to Bethsaida. And they brought a blind man to Jesus and pleaded with Him to touch him. 
Mark8:23 And taking the blind man by the hand, He brought him out of the village; and after spitting on his eyes and laying His hands on him, He was asking him, “Do you see anything?”" 
Mark8:24 And he looked up and was saying, “I see men, for I see them like trees, walking around.”" 
Mark8:25 Then again He laid His hands on his eyes; and he looked intently and was restored, and began to see everything clearly." 
Mark8:26 And He sent him to his home, saying, “Do not even enter the village.”" 
Mark8:27 And Jesus went out, along with His disciples, to the villages of Caesarea Philippi; and on the way He was asking His disciples, saying to them, “Who do people say that I am?”" 
Mark8:28 And they told Him, saying, “John the Baptist; and others say Elijah; but others, one of the prophets.”" 
Mark8:28 And they told Him, saying, “John the Baptist; and others say Elijah; but others, one of the prophets.”" 
Mark8:29 And He continued asking them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered and said to Him, “You are the Christ.”" 
Mark8:30 And He warned them to tell no one about Him. 
Mark8:31 And He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again." 
Mark8:32 And He was stating the matter openly. And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him. 
Mark8:33 But turning around and seeing His disciples, He rebuked Peter and said, “Get behind Me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on God’s interests, but man’s.”" 
Mark8:34 And He summoned the crowd with His disciples, and said to them, “If anyone wishes to come after Me, he must deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Me." 
Mark8:35 For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake and the gospel’s will save it." 
Mark8:36 For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world, and forfeit his soul?" 
Mark8:37 For what will a man give in exchange for his soul? 
Mark8:38 For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when He comes in the glory of His Father with the holy angels.”" 
Mark9:1 And Jesus was saying to them, “Truly I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God having come in power.”" 
Mark9:2 And six days later, Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John, and brought them up on a high mountain alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them;" 
Mark9:2 And six days later, Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John, and brought them up on a high mountain alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them;" 
Mark9:2 And six days later, Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John, and brought them up on a high mountain alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them;" 
Mark9:3 and His garments were shining intensely white, as no launderer on earth can whiten them." 
Mark9:4 And Elijah appeared to them along with Moses and they were conversing with Jesus. 
Mark9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, “Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; let us make three booths, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”" 
Mark9:6 For he did not know what to answer; for they became terrified. 
Mark9:7 Then a cloud formed, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud, “This is My beloved Son, listen to Him!”" 
Mark9:8 And all at once when they looked around, they saw no one with them anymore, except Jesus alone." 
Mark9:9 And as they were coming down from the mountain, He gave them orders not to recount to anyone what they had seen, until the Son of Man rose from the dead." 
Mark9:10 And they seized upon that statement, arguing with one another what rising from the dead meant." 
Mark9:11 And they began asking Him, saying, “Why is it that the scribes say that Elijah must come first?”" 
Mark9:12 And He said to them, “Elijah does first come and restore all things. And yet how is it written of the Son of Man that He will suffer many things and be treated with contempt?" 
Mark9:13 But I say to you that Elijah has indeed come, and they did to him whatever they wished, just as it is written of him.”" 
Mark9:14 And when they came back to the disciples, they saw a large crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them." 
Mark9:15 And immediately, when the entire crowd saw Him, they were amazed. And as they ran up, they were greeting Him." 
Mark9:16 And He asked them, “What are you arguing with them?”" 
Mark9:17 And one of the crowd answered Him, “Teacher, I brought You my son, possessed with a spirit which makes him mute;" 
Mark9:18 and whenever it seizes him, it slams him to the ground and he foams at the mouth, and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid. I told Your disciples to cast it out, and they could not do it.”" 
Mark9:19 And He answered them and said, “O unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring him to Me!”" 
Mark9:20 And they brought the boy to Him. When he saw Him, immediately the spirit threw him into a convulsion, and falling to the ground, he began rolling around, foaming at the mouth." 
Mark9:21 And He asked his father, “How long has this been happening to him?” And he said, “From childhood." 
Mark9:22 And it has often thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if You can do anything, take pity on us and help us!”" 
Mark9:23 And Jesus said to him, “‘If You can?’ All things are possible to him who believes.”" 
Mark9:24 Immediately the boy’s father cried out and was saying, “I do believe; help my unbelief.”" 
Mark9:25 Now when Jesus saw that a crowd was rapidly gathering, He rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, “You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and do not enter him again.”" 
Mark9:26 And after crying out and throwing him into terrible convulsions, it came out; and the boy became so much like a corpse that most of them said, “He is dead!”" 
Mark9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand and raised him; and he stood up. 
Mark9:28 And when He came into the house, His disciples began questioning Him privately, “Why could we not cast it out?”" 
Mark9:29 And He said to them, “This kind cannot come out by anything but prayer.”" 
Mark9:30 From there they went out and were going through Galilee, and He was not wanting anyone to know about it." 
Mark9:31 For He was teaching His disciples and telling them, “The Son of Man is to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill Him; and when He has been killed, He will rise again three days later.”" 
Mark9:32 But they did not understand this statement, and they were afraid to ask Him." 
Mark9:33 And they came to Capernaum; and when He was in the house, He began to question them, “What were you discussing on the way?”" 
Mark9:34 But they kept silent, for on the way they had discussed with one another which of them was the greatest." 
Mark9:35 And sitting down, He called the twelve and said to them, “If anyone wants to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all.”" 
Mark9:36 And taking a child, He set him before them. And taking him in His arms, He said to them," 
Mark9:37 “Whoever receives one child like this in My name receives Me; and whoever receives Me does not receive Me, but Him who sent Me.”" 
Mark9:38 John said to Him, “Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we tried to hinder him because he was not following us.”" 
Mark9:38 John said to Him, “Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we tried to hinder him because he was not following us.”" 
Mark9:39 But Jesus said, “Do not hinder him, for there is no one who will perform a miracle in My name, and be able soon afterward to speak evil of Me." 
Mark9:40 For he who is not against us is for us. 
Mark9:41 For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in My name because you are of Christ, truly I say to you, he will not lose his reward." 
Mark9:42 “And whoever causes one of these little ones who believe to stumble, it would be better for him if, with a heavy millstone hung around his neck, he had been cast into the sea." 
Mark9:43 And if your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off; it is better for you to enter life crippled, than, having your two hands, to go into hell, into the unquenchable fire," 
Mark9:44 [and where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.]" 
Mark9:45 And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off; it is better for you to enter life lame, than, having your two feet, to be cast into hell," 
Mark9:46 [and where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.]" 
Mark9:47 And if your eye causes you to stumble, gouge it out; it is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye, than, having two eyes, to be cast into hell," 
Mark9:48 where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched." 
Mark9:49 “For everyone will be salted with fire. 
Mark9:50 Salt is good; but if the salt becomes unsalty, with what will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.”" 
Mark10:1 And standing up, He went from there to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan; crowds gathered around Him again, and, according to His custom, He once more began to teach them." 
Mark10:1 And standing up, He went from there to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan; crowds gathered around Him again, and, according to His custom, He once more began to teach them." 
Mark10:2 And some Pharisees came up to Jesus, testing Him, and began to question Him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife." 
Mark10:3 And He answered and said to them, “What did Moses command you?”" 
Mark10:4 And they said, “Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and send her away.”" 
Mark10:5 But Jesus said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart he wrote for you this commandment." 
Mark10:6 But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female." 
Mark10:7 For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother," 
Mark10:8 and the two shall become one flesh; so they are no longer two, but one flesh." 
Mark10:9 What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate.”" 
Mark10:10 And in the house the disciples began questioning Him about this again. 
Mark10:11 And He said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her;" 
Mark10:12 and if she herself divorces her husband and marries another man, she is committing adultery.”" 
Mark10:13 And they were bringing children to Him so that He might touch them; but the disciples rebuked them. 
Mark10:14 But when Jesus saw this, He was indignant and said to them, “Permit the children to come to Me; do not hinder them; for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these." 
Mark10:15 Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child will not enter it at all.”" 
Mark10:16 And He took them in His arms and began blessing them, laying His hands on them." 
Mark10:17 And as He was setting out on a journey, a man ran up to Him and knelt before Him, and began asking Him, “Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?”" 
Mark10:18 And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except God alone." 
Mark10:19 You know the commandments, ‘Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.’”" 
Mark10:20 And he said to Him, “Teacher, I have kept all these things from my youth up.”" 
Mark10:21 And looking at him, Jesus loved him and said to him, “One thing you lack: go and sell all you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.”" 
Mark10:22 But at these words he was saddened, and he went away grieving, for he was one who owned much property." 
Mark10:23 And Jesus, looking around, said to His disciples, “How hard it will be for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God!”" 
Mark10:24 And the disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus answered again and said to them, “Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God!" 
Mark10:25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Mark10:26 And they were even more astonished, saying to Him, “Then who can be saved?”" 
Mark10:27 Looking at them, Jesus said, “With people it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God.”" 
Mark10:28 Peter began to say to Him, “Behold, we have left everything and followed You.”" 
Mark10:29 Jesus said, “Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or farms, for My sake and for the gospel’s sake," 
Mark10:30 except one who will receive one hundred times as much now in the present age—houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and farms, along with persecutions—and in the age to come, eternal life." 
Mark10:31 But many who are first will be last, and the last, first.”" 
Mark10:32 And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking on ahead of them; and they were amazed, and those who followed were fearful. And again He took the twelve aside and began to tell them what was going to happen to Him:" 
Mark10:33 “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes; and they will condemn Him to death and will deliver Him over to the Gentiles." 
Mark10:34 And they will mock Him and spit on Him, and flog Him and kill Him, and three days later He will rise again.”" 
Mark10:35 Then James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came up to Jesus, saying to Him, “Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask of You.”" 
Mark10:35 Then James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came up to Jesus, saying to Him, “Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask of You.”" 
Mark10:35 Then James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came up to Jesus, saying to Him, “Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask of You.”" 
Mark10:36 And He said to them, “What do you want Me to do for you?”" 
Mark10:37 And they said to Him, “Grant that we may sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your glory.”" 
Mark10:38 But Jesus said to them, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?”" 
Mark10:39 And they said to Him, “We are able.” And Jesus said to them, “The cup that I drink you shall drink; and you shall be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized." 
Mark10:40 But to sit on My right or on My left, this is not Mine to give; but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.”" 
Mark10:41 And hearing this, the ten began to feel indignant with James and John." 
Mark10:41 And hearing this, the ten began to feel indignant with James and John." 
Mark10:41 And hearing this, the ten began to feel indignant with James and John." 
Mark10:42 And calling them to Himself, Jesus said to them, “You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them; and their great men exercise authority over them." 
Mark10:43 But it is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant;" 
Mark10:44 and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be slave of all. 
Mark10:45 For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many.”" 
Mark10:46 Then they came to Jericho. And as He was leaving Jericho with His disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar named Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the road." 
Mark10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Mark10:48 And many were sternly telling him to be quiet, but he kept crying out all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Mark10:49 And Jesus stopped and said, “Call him here.” So they called the blind man, saying to him, “Take courage, get up! He is calling for you.”" 
Mark10:50 And throwing off his outer garment, he jumped up and came to Jesus." 
Mark10:51 And Jesus answered him and said, “What do you want Me to do for you?” And the blind man said to Him, “Rabboni, I want to regain my sight!”" 
Mark10:52 And Jesus said to him, “Go; your faith has saved you.” Immediately he regained his sight and began following Him on the road." 
Mark11:1 And as they approached Jerusalem, at Bethphage and Bethany, near the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples," 
Mark11:2 and said to them, “Go into the village opposite you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, on which no one yet has ever sat; untie it and bring it here." 
Mark11:3 And if anyone says to you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ you say, ‘The Lord has need of it’; and immediately he will send it back here.”" 
Mark11:4 And they went away and found a colt tied at the door, outside in the street; and they untied it." 
Mark11:5 And some of the bystanders were saying to them, “What are you doing, untying the colt?”" 
Mark11:6 And they spoke to them just as Jesus had told them, and they gave them permission." 
Mark11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus and put their garments on it; and He sat on it. 
Mark11:8 And many spread their garments in the road, and others spread leafy branches, having cut them from the fields." 
Mark11:9 And those who went in front and those who followed were shouting: “Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord; 
Mark11:10 Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David; Hosanna in the highest!” 
Mark11:11 And Jesus entered Jerusalem and came into the temple; and after looking around at everything, He left for Bethany with the twelve, since it was already late." 
Mark11:12 And on the next day, when they had left Bethany, He became hungry." 
Mark11:13 And seeing at a distance a fig tree that had leaves, He went to see if perhaps He would find anything on it; and when He came to it, He found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs." 
Mark11:14 And He answered and said to it, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again!” And His disciples were listening." 
Mark11:15 Then they came to Jerusalem. And He entered the temple and began to drive out those who were buying and selling in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves;" 
Mark11:16 and He was not permitting anyone to carry merchandise through the temple. 
Mark11:17 And He began to teach and say to them, “Is it not written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations’? But you have made it a robbers’ den.”" 
Mark11:18 And the chief priests and the scribes heard this, and began seeking how to destroy Him; for they were afraid of Him, for the whole crowd was astonished at His teaching." 
Mark11:19 And when evening came, they were going out of the city." 
Mark11:20 And as they were passing by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots." 
Mark11:21 And being reminded, Peter said to Him, “Rabbi, look, the fig tree which You cursed has withered.”" 
Mark11:22 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Have faith in God." 
Mark11:23 Truly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says is going to happen, it will be granted him." 
Mark11:24 For this reason I say to you, all things for which you pray and ask, believe that you have received them, and they will be granted to you." 
Mark11:25 And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you your transgressions." 
Mark11:26 [But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your transgressions.”]" 
Mark11:27 Then they came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him," 
Mark11:28 and began saying to Him, “By what authority are You doing these things, or who gave You this authority to do these things?”" 
Mark11:29 And Jesus said to them, “I will ask you one question, and you answer Me, and then I will tell you by what authority I do these things." 
Mark11:30 Was the baptism of John from heaven, or from men? Answer Me.”" 
Mark11:30 Was the baptism of John from heaven, or from men? Answer Me.”" 
Mark11:31 And they began reasoning among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’" 
Mark11:32 But if we say, ‘From men’?”—they were afraid of the crowd, for everyone was regarding John to have been a real prophet." 
Mark11:32 But if we say, ‘From men’?”—they were afraid of the crowd, for everyone was regarding John to have been a real prophet." 
Mark11:33 And answering Jesus, they said, “We do not know.” And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”" 
Mark12:1 And He began to speak to them in parables: “A man planted a vineyard and put a wall around it, and dug a vat under the wine press and built a tower, and rented it out to vine-growers and went on a journey." 
Mark12:2 And at the harvest time he sent a slave to the vine-growers, in order to receive some of the fruit of the vineyard from the vine-growers." 
Mark12:3 And they took him, and beat him and sent him away empty-handed." 
Mark12:4 And again he sent them another slave, and they wounded him in the head, and treated him shamefully." 
Mark12:5 And he sent another, and that one they killed; and so with many others, beating some and killing others." 
Mark12:6 He had one more, a beloved son; he sent him last of all to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’" 
Mark12:7 But those vine-growers said to one another, ‘This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours!’" 
Mark12:8 And they took him, and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard." 
Mark12:9 What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vine-growers, and will give the vineyard to others." 
Mark12:10 Have you not even read this Scripture: ‘The stone which the builders rejected, This has become the chief corner stone;" 
Mark12:11 This came about from the Lord, And it is marvelous in our eyes’?”" 
Mark12:12 And they were seeking to seize Him, and yet they feared the crowd, for they understood that He spoke the parable against them. And so they left Him and went away." 
Mark12:13 Then they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Him in order to trap Him in a statement. 
Mark12:14 And they came and said to Him, “Teacher, we know that You are truthful and defer to no one; for You are not partial to any, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay a tax to Caesar, or not?" 
Mark12:15 Shall we pay or shall we not pay?” But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, “Why are you testing Me? Bring Me a denarius to look at.”" 
Mark12:16 And they brought one. And He said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?” And they said to Him, “Caesar’s.”" 
Mark12:17 And Jesus said to them, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” And they were amazed at Him." 
Mark12:18 Then some Sadducees (who say that there is no resurrection) came to Jesus, and began questioning Him, saying," 
Mark12:19 “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies and leaves behind a wife and leaves no child, his brother should marry the wife and raise up a seed for his brother." 
Mark12:20 There were seven brothers; and the first married a wife, and died leaving no seed." 
Mark12:21 And the second one married her, and died leaving behind no seed; and the third likewise;" 
Mark12:22 and so all seven left no seed. Last of all the woman died also. 
Mark12:23 In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For all seven had married her.”" 
Mark12:24 Jesus said to them, “Is this not the reason you are mistaken, that you do not understand the Scriptures nor the power of God?" 
Mark12:25 For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven." 
Mark12:26 But regarding the fact that the dead are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the burning bush, how God spoke to him, saying, ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’?" 
Mark12:27 He is not the God of the dead, but of the living; you are greatly mistaken.”" 
Mark12:28 And when one of the scribes came and heard them arguing, he recognized that He had answered them well and asked Him, “What commandment is the foremost of all?”" 
Mark12:29 Jesus answered, “The foremost is, ‘Hear, O Israel! The Lord our God is one Lord;" 
Mark12:30 and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.’" 
Mark12:31 The second is this, ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.”" 
Mark12:32 And the scribe said to Him, “Right, Teacher; You have truly stated that He is One, and there is no one else besides Him;" 
Mark12:33 and to love Him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love one’s neighbor as himself, is much more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices.”" 
Mark12:34 And when Jesus saw that he had answered thoughtfully, He said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” After that, no one would dare to ask Him any more questions." 
Mark12:35 And Jesus began to say, as He taught in the temple, “How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?" 
Mark12:36 David himself said in the Holy Spirit, ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand, Until I put Your enemies beneath Your feet.”’" 
Mark12:37 David himself calls Him ‘Lord’; so in what sense is He his son?” And the large crowd enjoyed listening to Him. 
Mark12:38 And in His teaching He was saying: “Beware of the scribes who want to walk around in long robes, and want respectful greetings in the marketplaces," 
Mark12:39 and best seats in the synagogues and places of honor at banquets," 
Mark12:40 who devour widows’ houses, and for appearance’s sake offer long prayers; these will receive greater condemnation.”" 
Mark12:41 And He sat down opposite the treasury, and began observing how the crowd was putting money into the treasury; and many rich people were putting in large sums." 
Mark12:42 And a poor widow came and put in two lepta, which amount to a quadrans." 
Mark12:43 And calling His disciples to Him, He said to them, “Truly I say to you, this poor widow put in more than all those putting money into the treasury;" 
Mark12:44 for they all put in out of their surplus, but she, out of her poverty, put in all she owned, all she had to live on.”" 
Mark13:1 And as He was going out of the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, “Teacher, behold what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!”" 
Mark13:2 And Jesus said to him, “Do you see these great buildings? Not one stone will be left upon another which will not be torn down.”" 
Mark13:3 And as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew were questioning Him privately," 
Mark13:3 And as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew were questioning Him privately," 
Mark13:3 And as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew were questioning Him privately," 
Mark13:4 “Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are going to be fulfilled?”" 
Mark13:5 And Jesus began to say to them, “See to it that no one deceives you." 
Mark13:6 Many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am He!’ and will mislead many." 
Mark13:7 And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; those things must take place; but that is not yet the end." 
Mark13:8 For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in various places; there will also be famines. These things are merely the beginning of birth pains." 
Mark13:9 “But see to yourselves; for they will deliver you to the courts, and you will be beaten in the synagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for My sake, as a witness to them." 
Mark13:10 And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations. 
Mark13:11 And when they lead you away, delivering you up, do not worry beforehand about what you are to say, but say whatever is given to you in that hour; for it is not you who speak, but it is the Holy Spirit." 
Mark13:12 And brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against parents and have them put to death." 
Mark13:13 And you will be hated by all because of My name, but the one who endures to the end, he will be saved." 
Mark13:14 “But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it should not be (let the reader understand), then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains." 
Mark13:14 “But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it should not be (let the reader understand), then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains." 
Mark13:15 And the one who is on the housetop must not go down, or go in to get anything out of his house;" 
Mark13:16 and the one who is in the field must not turn back to get his garment. 
Mark13:17 But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days! 
Mark13:18 But pray that it may not happen in the winter. 
Mark13:19 For those days will be a time of tribulation such as has not occurred since the beginning of the creation which God created until now, and never will." 
Mark13:20 And unless the Lord had shortened those days, no life would have been saved; but for the sake of the elect, whom He chose, He shortened the days." 
Mark13:21 And then if anyone says to you, ‘Behold, here is the Christ’; or, ‘Behold, He is there’; do not believe him;" 
Mark13:22 for false christs and false prophets will arise, and will show signs and wonders, in order to lead astray, if possible, the elect." 
Mark13:23 But as for you, see! I have told you everything in advance." 
Mark13:24 “But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light," 
Mark13:25 and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken." 
Mark13:26 And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. 
Mark13:27 And then He will send forth the angels, and will gather together His elect from the four winds, from the farthest end of the earth to the farthest end of heaven." 
Mark13:28 “Now learn the parable from the fig tree: when its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near." 
Mark13:29 Even so, you too, when you see these things happening, recognize that He is near, right at the door." 
Mark13:30 Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place." 
Mark13:31 Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away." 
Mark13:32 But of that day or hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone." 
Mark13:33 “See to it, keep on the alert; for you do not know when the appointed time will come." 
Mark13:34 It is like a man away on a journey, who, leaving his house and giving authority to his slaves—each one his task, also commanded the doorkeeper to stay awake." 
Mark13:35 Therefore, stay awake—for you do not know when the master of the house is coming, whether in the evening, at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning—" 
Mark13:36 lest he come suddenly and find you sleeping. 
Mark13:37 And what I say to you I say to all, ‘Stay awake!’”" 
Mark14:1 Now the Passover and Unleavened Bread were two days away; and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how, after seizing Him in secret, they might kill Him;" 
Mark14:2 for they were saying, “Not during the festival, lest there be a riot of the people.”" 
Mark14:3 And while He was in Bethany at the home of Simon the leper, and reclining at the table, there came a woman with an alabaster jar of perfume of very costly pure nard; and she broke the jar and poured it over His head." 
Mark14:4 But some were indignantly remarking to one another, “Why has this perfume been wasted?" 
Mark14:5 For this perfume might have been sold for over three hundred denarii and given to the poor.” And they were scolding her. 
Mark14:6 But Jesus said, “Let her alone; why do you bother her? She did a good work to Me." 
Mark14:7 For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you wish you can do good to them; but you do not always have Me." 
Mark14:8 She has done what she could; she anointed My body beforehand for the burial. 
Mark14:9 And truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman did will also be spoken of in memory of her.”" 
Mark14:10 Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests in order to betray Him to them." 
Mark14:11 And when they heard this, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he began seeking how to betray Him at an opportune time." 
Mark14:12 And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover lamb was being sacrificed, His disciples said to Him, “Where do You want us to go and prepare for You to eat the Passover?”" 
Mark14:13 And He sent two of His disciples and said to them, “Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water; follow him;" 
Mark14:14 and wherever he enters, say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher says, “Where is My guest room in which I may eat the Passover with My disciples?”’" 
Mark14:15 And he himself will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; prepare for us there.” 
Mark14:16 And the disciples went out and came to the city, and found it just as He had told them; and they prepared the Passover." 
Mark14:17 And when it was evening He came with the twelve. 
Mark14:18 And as they were reclining at the table and eating, Jesus said, “Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me—the one who is eating with Me.”" 
Mark14:19 They began to be grieved and to say to Him one by one, “Surely not I?”" 
Mark14:20 And He said to them, “It is one of the twelve, the one who dips with Me in the bowl." 
Mark14:21 For the Son of Man is to go just as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born.” 
Mark14:22 And while they were eating, He took some bread, and after a blessing, He broke it, and gave it to them, and said, “Take it; this is My body.”" 
Mark14:23 And when He had taken a cup and given thanks, He gave it to them, and they all drank from it." 
Mark14:24 And He said to them, “This is My blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many." 
Mark14:25 Truly I say to you, I will never again drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.”" 
Mark14:26 And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives." 
Mark14:27 And Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away, because it is written, ‘I will strike down the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.’" 
Mark14:28 But after I have been raised, I will go ahead of you to Galilee.”" 
Mark14:29 But Peter said to Him, “Even though all may fall away, yet I will not.”" 
Mark14:30 And Jesus said to him, “Truly I say to you, that today, this very night, before a rooster crows twice, you yourself will deny Me three times.”" 
Mark14:31 But Peter kept saying insistently, “If I have to die with You, I will not deny You!” And they all were saying the same thing also." 
Mark14:32 Then they came to a place named Gethsemane; and He said to His disciples, “Sit here until I have prayed.”" 
Mark14:33 And He took with Him Peter and James and John, and began to be very distressed and troubled." 
Mark14:33 And He took with Him Peter and James and John, and began to be very distressed and troubled." 
Mark14:33 And He took with Him Peter and James and John, and began to be very distressed and troubled." 
Mark14:34 And He said to them, “My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death; remain here and keep watch.”" 
Mark14:35 And He went a little beyond them, and fell to the ground and began to pray that if it were possible, the hour might pass from Him." 
Mark14:36 And He was saying, “Abba! Father! All things are possible for You; remove this cup from Me; yet not what I will, but what You will.”" 
Mark14:37 And He came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “Simon, are you sleeping? Could you not keep watch for one hour?" 
Mark14:38 Keep watching and praying that you may not come into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”" 
Mark14:39 And again He went away and prayed, saying the same words." 
Mark14:40 And again He came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy; and they did not know what to answer Him." 
Mark14:41 And He came the third time, and said to them, “Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough; the hour has come; behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners." 
Mark14:42 Get up, let us go; behold, the one who betrays Me is at hand!”" 
Mark14:43 And immediately while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, came up, and with him was a crowd with swords and clubs, who were from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders." 
Mark14:44 Now he who was betraying Him had given them a signal, saying, “Whomever I kiss, He is the one; seize Him and lead Him away under guard.”" 
Mark14:45 And after coming, Judas, having immediately gone to Him, said, “Rabbi!” and kissed Him." 
Mark14:46 And they laid hands on Him and seized Him. 
Mark14:47 But one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his ear." 
Mark14:48 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest Me, as you would against a robber?" 
Mark14:49 Every day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize Me; but this has taken place in order that the Scriptures would be fulfilled.”" 
Mark14:50 And they all left Him and fled. 
Mark14:51 And a young man was following Him, wearing nothing but a linen sheet over his naked body; and they seized him." 
Mark14:52 But he pulled free of the linen sheet and escaped naked. 
Mark14:53 Then they led Jesus away to the high priest; and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes gathered together. 
Mark14:54 And Peter followed Him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest; and he was sitting with the officers and warming himself at the fire." 
Mark14:55 Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking to obtain testimony against Jesus to put Him to death, and they were not finding any." 
Mark14:56 For many were giving false testimony against Him, but their testimony was not consistent." 
Mark14:57 And some, standing up, were giving false testimony against Him, saying," 
Mark14:58 “We ourselves heard Him say, ‘I will destroy this sanctuary made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.’”" 
Mark14:59 And not even in this way was their testimony consistent. 
Mark14:60 And the high priest stood up in their midst and questioned Jesus, saying, “You answer nothing? What are these men testifying against You?”" 
Mark14:61 But He kept silent and did not answer. Again the high priest was questioning Him and said to Him, “Are You the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One?”" 
Mark14:62 And Jesus said, “I am; and you shall see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.”" 
Mark14:63 And tearing his tunics, the high priest said, “What further need do we have of witnesses?" 
Mark14:64 You have heard the blasphemy; how does it seem to you?” And they all condemned Him to be deserving of death. 
Mark14:65 And some began to spit at Him, and to blindfold Him, and to beat Him with their fists, and to say to Him, “Prophesy!” And the officers received Him with slaps in the face." 
Mark14:66 And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant-girls of the high priest came," 
Mark14:67 and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, “You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.”" 
Mark14:68 But he denied it, saying, “I neither know nor understand what you are talking about.” And he went out into the entryway." 
Mark14:69 And when the servant-girl saw him, she began once more to say to the bystanders, “This is one of them!”" 
Mark14:70 But again he was denying it. And after a little while the bystanders were again saying to Peter, “Surely you are one of them, for you are also a Galilean.”" 
Mark14:71 But he began to curse and swear, “I do not know this man you are talking about!”" 
Mark14:72 And immediately a rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said the statement to him, “Before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me three times.” And throwing himself down, he began to cry." 
Mark15:1 And early in the morning the chief priests with the elders and scribes and the whole Sanhedrin, immediately held council; and binding Jesus, led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate." 
Mark15:2 And Pilate questioned Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” And He answered him and said, “You yourself say it.”" 
Mark15:3 And the chief priests began to accuse Him of many things. 
Mark15:4 Then Pilate was questioning Him again, saying, “You answer nothing? See how many accusations they bring against You!”" 
Mark15:5 But Jesus made no further answer; so Pilate marveled. 
Mark15:6 Now at the feast he used to release for them any one prisoner whom they requested. 
Mark15:7 And the man named Barabbas had been imprisoned with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the insurrection. 
Mark15:8 And the crowd went up and began asking him to do as he had been accustomed to do for them. 
Mark15:9 And Pilate answered them, saying, “Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?”" 
Mark15:10 For he was aware that the chief priests had delivered Him over because of envy. 
Mark15:11 But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to ask him to release Barabbas for them instead. 
Mark15:12 And answering again, Pilate was saying to them, “Then what shall I do with Him whom you call the King of the Jews?”" 
Mark15:13 And they shouted again, “Crucify Him!”" 
Mark15:14 But Pilate was saying to them, “Why? What evil did He do?” But they shouted all the more, “Crucify Him!”" 
Mark15:15 And wishing to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas for them, and after having Jesus scourged, he delivered Him over to be crucified." 
Mark15:16 So the soldiers took Him away into the palace (that is, the Praetorium), and they called together the whole Roman cohort." 
Mark15:17 And they dressed Him up in purple, and after twisting a crown of thorns, they put it on Him;" 
Mark15:18 and they began to greet Him, “Hail, King of the Jews!”" 
Mark15:19 And they kept beating His head with a reed, and spitting on Him; and kneeling, they were bowing down before Him." 
Mark15:20 And after they had mocked Him, they took the purple robe off Him and put His own garments on Him. And they led Him out to crucify Him." 
Mark15:21 And they pressed into service a passer-by coming from the countryside, Simon of Cyrene (the father of Alexander and Rufus), to carry His cross." 
Mark15:22 Then they brought Him to the place Golgotha, which is translated, Place of a Skull." 
Mark15:23 And they tried to give Him wine mixed with myrrh; but He did not take it. 
Mark15:24 And they crucified Him, and divided up His garments among themselves, casting lots for them to decide who should take what." 
Mark15:25 Now it was the third hour, and they crucified Him." 
Mark15:26 And the inscription of the charge against Him read, “THE KING OF THE JEWS.”" 
Mark15:27 And they crucified two robbers with Him, one on His right and one on His left." 
Mark15:28 [And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And He was numbered with transgressors.”]" 
Mark15:29 And those passing by were blaspheming Him, shaking their heads, and saying, “Ha! You who are going to destroy the sanctuary and rebuild it in three days," 
Mark15:30 save Yourself by coming down from the cross!” 
Mark15:31 In the same way, mocking Him to one another, the chief priests also, along with the scribes, were saying, “He saved others; He cannot save Himself." 
Mark15:32 Let this Christ, the King of Israel, now come down from the cross, so that we may see and believe!” Those who were crucified with Him were also insulting Him." 
Mark15:33 And when the sixth hour came, darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour." 
Mark15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?” which is translated, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?”" 
Mark15:35 And when some of the bystanders heard it, they began saying, “Look, He is calling for Elijah.”" 
Mark15:36 And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave Him a drink, saying, “Let us see whether Elijah will come to take Him down.”" 
Mark15:37 And Jesus, uttering a loud cry, breathed His last." 
Mark15:38 And the veil of the sanctuary was torn in two from top to bottom. 
Mark15:39 And when the centurion, who was standing right in front of Him, saw the way He breathed His last, he said, “Truly this man was God’s Son!”" 
Mark15:40 And there were also some women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Less and Joses, and Salome," 
Mark15:40 And there were also some women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Less and Joses, and Salome," 
Mark15:41 who, when He was in Galilee, were following Him and serving Him; and there were many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem." 
Mark15:42 And when evening had already come, because it was Preparation day, that is, the day before the Sabbath," 
Mark15:43 Joseph of Arimathea came, a prominent Council member, who himself was waiting for the kingdom of God; and he gathered up courage and went in before Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus." 
Mark15:44 And Pilate wondered if He had died by this time, and summoning the centurion, he questioned him as to whether He already died." 
Mark15:45 And ascertaining this from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph." 
Mark15:46 And when Joseph had bought a linen cloth and took Him down, he wrapped Him in the linen cloth and laid Him in a tomb which had been hewn out in the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb." 
Mark15:47 And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses were looking on to see where He had been laid. 
Mark16:1 And when the Sabbath passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, so that they might come and anoint Him." 
Mark16:1 And when the Sabbath passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, so that they might come and anoint Him." 
Mark16:2 And very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen." 
Mark16:3 And they were saying to one another, “Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?”" 
Mark16:4 And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, although it was very large." 
Mark16:5 And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, wearing a white robe; and they were amazed." 
Mark16:6 And he said to them, “Do not be amazed; you are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He has risen; He is not here; behold, the place where they laid Him." 
Mark16:7 But go, tell His disciples and Peter, ‘He is going ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see Him, just as He told you.’”" 
Mark16:8 And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment were gripping them; and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid." 
Mark16:9 [Now after He had risen early on the first day of the week, He first appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom He had cast out seven demons." 
Mark16:10 She went and reported to those who had been with Him, while they were mourning and crying." 
Mark16:11 And when they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they refused to believe it." 
Mark16:12 After that, He appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking along on their way to the countryside." 
Mark16:13 And they went away and reported it to the others, but they did not believe them either." 
Mark16:14 Afterward He appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at the table; and He reproached them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who had seen Him after He had risen." 
Mark16:15 And He said to them, “Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation." 
Mark16:16 He who has believed and has been baptized shall be saved; but he who has disbelieved shall be condemned. 
Mark16:17 And these signs will accompany those who have believed: in My name they will cast out demons, they will speak with new tongues;" 
Mark16:18 and they will pick up serpents, and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover.”" 
Mark16:19 So then, the Lord Jesus, after He had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God." 
Mark16:20 And they went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them, and confirmed the word by the signs that followed.] [And they promptly reported all these instructions to Peter and his companions. And after that, Jesus Himself sent out through them from east to west the sacred and imperishable preaching of eternal salvation.]" 
Luke1:1 Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us," 
Luke1:2 just as those, who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word, handed them down to us," 
Luke1:3 it seemed fitting for me as well, having investigated everything carefully from the beginning, to write it out for you in orderly sequence, most excellent Theophilus," 
Luke1:4 so that you may know the certainty about the things you have been taught. 
Luke1:5 In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth." 
Luke1:5 In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth." 
Luke1:6 And they were both righteous in the sight of God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and righteous requirements of the Lord." 
Luke1:7 But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both advanced in years." 
Luke1:8 Now it happened that while he was performing his priestly service before God in the order of his division," 
Luke1:9 according to the custom of the priestly office, he was chosen by lot to enter the sanctuary of the Lord and burn incense." 
Luke1:10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of the incense offering. 
Luke1:11 And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing to the right of the altar of incense." 
Luke1:12 And Zechariah was troubled when he saw the angel, and fear fell upon him." 
Luke1:13 But the angel said to him, “Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will call his name John." 
Luke1:13 But the angel said to him, “Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will call his name John." 
Luke1:14 And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth." 
Luke1:15 For he will be great in the sight of the Lord; and he will not drink any wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit while yet in his mother’s womb." 
Luke1:16 And he will turn many of the sons of Israel back to the Lord their God. 
Luke1:17 And he will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers back to the children, and the disobedient to the attitude of the righteous, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.”" 
Luke1:18 And Zechariah said to the angel, “How will I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years.”" 
Luke1:19 And the angel answered and said to him, “I am Gabriel, who stands before God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news." 
Luke1:20 And behold, you shall be silent and unable to speak until the day when these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time.”" 
Luke1:21 And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and were wondering at his delay in the sanctuary." 
Luke1:22 But when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the sanctuary. And he kept making signs to them, and remained mute." 
Luke1:23 And it happened that when the days of his priestly service were fulfilled, he went back home." 
Luke1:24 After these days Elizabeth his wife conceived, and she kept herself in seclusion for five months, saying," 
Luke1:25 “This is the way the Lord has dealt with me in the days when He looked upon me to take away my disgrace among men.” 
Luke1:26 Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth," 
Luke1:27 to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin’s name was Mary." 
Luke1:28 And coming in, he said to her, “Greetings, favored one! The Lord is with you.”" 
Luke1:29 But she was very perplexed at this statement, and was pondering what kind of greeting this was." 
Luke1:30 And the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God." 
Luke1:31 And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name Him Jesus." 
Luke1:32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David," 
Luke1:33 and He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and there will be no end of His kingdom.”" 
Luke1:34 But Mary said to the angel, “How will this be, since I am a virgin?”" 
Luke1:35 The angel answered and said to her, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; and for that reason the holy Child shall be called the Son of God." 
Luke1:36 And behold, your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month for her who was called barren." 
Luke1:37 For nothing will be impossible with God.” 
Luke1:38 And Mary said, “Behold, the slave of the Lord; may it be done to me according to your word.” And the angel departed from her." 
Luke1:39 Now at this time Mary arose and went in a hurry to the hill country, to a city of Judah," 
Luke1:40 and entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. 
Luke1:41 And it happened that when Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit." 
Luke1:42 And she cried out with a loud voice and said, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!" 
Luke1:43 And how has it happened to me, that the mother of my Lord would come to me?" 
Luke1:44 For behold, when the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy." 
Luke1:45 And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what had been spoken to her by the Lord.” 
Luke1:46 And Mary said: “My soul magnifies the Lord," 
Luke1:47 And my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. 
Luke1:48 For He has looked upon the humble state of His slave, For behold, from this time on, all generations will count me blessed." 
Luke1:49 For the Mighty One has done great things for me, And holy is His name." 
Luke1:50 And His mercy is upon generation after generation Toward those who fear Him. 
Luke1:51 He has done a mighty deed with His arm; He has scattered those who were proud in the thoughts of their heart. 
Luke1:52 He has brought down rulers from their thrones, And has exalted those who were humble." 
Luke1:53 He has filled the hungry with good things, And sent away the rich empty‑handed." 
Luke1:54 He has given help to Israel His servant, In remembrance of His mercy," 
Luke1:55 As He spoke to our fathers, To Abraham and his seed forever.”" 
Luke1:56 And Mary stayed with her about three months, and then returned to her home." 
Luke1:57 Now the time was fulfilled for Elizabeth to give birth, and she gave birth to a son." 
Luke1:58 And her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had magnified His great mercy toward her, and they were rejoicing with her." 
Luke1:59 And it happened that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to call him Zechariah, after the name of his father." 
Luke1:60 But his mother answered and said, “No, but he shall be called John.”" 
Luke1:60 But his mother answered and said, “No, but he shall be called John.”" 
Luke1:61 And they said to her, “There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.”" 
Luke1:62 And they were making signs to his father, as to what he wanted him called." 
Luke1:63 And he asked for a tablet and wrote as follows, “His name is John.” And they all marveled." 
Luke1:63 And he asked for a tablet and wrote as follows, “His name is John.” And they all marveled." 
Luke1:64 And at once his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he began to speak, blessing God." 
Luke1:65 And fear came on all those living around them, and all these matters were being talked about in all the hill country of Judea." 
Luke1:65 And fear came on all those living around them, and all these matters were being talked about in all the hill country of Judea." 
Luke1:66 And all who heard these things put them in their heart, saying, “What then will this child be?” For the hand of the Lord was indeed with him." 
Luke1:67 And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying:" 
Luke1:68 “Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, For He visited and accomplished redemption for His people," 
Luke1:69 And raised up a horn of salvation for us In the house of David His servant— 
Luke1:70 As He spoke by the mouth of His holy prophets from of old— 
Luke1:71 Salvation from our enemies, And from the hand of all who hate us," 
Luke1:72 To show mercy toward our fathers, And to remember His holy covenant," 
Luke1:73 The oath which He swore to Abraham our father," 
Luke1:74 To grant us that we, being rescued from the hand of our enemies, Might serve Him without fear," 
Luke1:75 In holiness and righteousness before Him all our days. 
Luke1:76 And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, For you will go on before the Lord to make ready His ways," 
Luke1:77 To give to His people the knowledge of salvation By the forgiveness of their sins," 
Luke1:78 Because of the tender mercy of our God, With which the Sunrise from on high will visit us," 
Luke1:79 To shine upon those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, To direct our feet into the way of peace.”" 
Luke1:80 And the child continued to grow and to become strong in spirit, and he lived in the desolate regions until the day of his public appearance to Israel." 
Luke2:1 Now it happened that in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus for a census to be taken of all the inhabited earth. 
Luke2:2 This was the first census taken while Quirinius was governor of Syria. 
Luke2:3 And everyone was going to be registered for the census, each to his own city." 
Luke2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David," 
Luke2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David," 
Luke2:5 in order to register along with Mary, who was betrothed to him, and was with child." 
Luke2:6 Now it happened that while they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to give birth." 
Luke2:7 And she gave birth to her firstborn son; and she wrapped Him in cloths, and laid Him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the guest room." 
Luke2:8 In the same region there were some shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night. 
Luke2:9 And an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them; and they were terribly frightened." 
Luke2:10 But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid; for behold, I bring you good news of great joy which will be for all the people." 
Luke2:11 For today in the city of David there has been born for you a Savior, who is Christ the Lord." 
Luke2:12 And this will be the sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.” 
Luke2:13 And suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying," 
Luke2:14 “Glory to God in the highest, And on earth peace among men with whom He is pleased.”" 
Luke2:15 And it happened that when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds began saying to one another, “Let us go to Bethlehem then, and see this thing that has happened which the Lord has made known to us.”" 
Luke2:16 So they went in a hurry and found their way to Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in the manger." 
Luke2:17 And when they had seen this, they made known the statement which had been told them about this Child." 
Luke2:18 And all who heard it marveled at the things which were told them by the shepherds. 
Luke2:19 But Mary was treasuring all these things, pondering them in her heart." 
Luke2:20 And the shepherds went back, glorifying and praising God for all that they had heard and seen, just as was told them." 
Luke2:21 And when eight days were fulfilled so that they could circumcise Him, His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb." 
Luke2:22 And when the days for their cleansing according to the Law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought Him up to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord" 
Luke2:23 (as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord”)," 
Luke2:24 and to offer a sacrifice according to what was said in the Law of the Lord, “A pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.”" 
Luke2:25 And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the comfort of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him." 
Luke2:26 And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. 
Luke2:27 And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to carry out for Him the custom of the Law," 
Luke2:28 then he took Him into his arms and blessed God, and said," 
Luke2:29 “Now Master, You are releasing Your slave in peace, According to Your word." 
Luke2:30 For my eyes have seen Your salvation," 
Luke2:31 Which You prepared in the presence of all peoples," 
Luke2:32 A Light for revelation to the Gentiles, And for the glory of Your people Israel.”" 
Luke2:33 And His father and mother were marveling at the things which were being said about Him. 
Luke2:34 And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother, “Behold, this Child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel, and for a sign to be opposed—" 
Luke2:35 and a sword will pierce through your own soul as well—that the thoughts from many hearts may be revealed.” 
Luke2:36 And there was a prophetess, Anna the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin," 
Luke2:37 and then as a widow to the age of eighty-four. She never left the temple, serving night and day with fastings and prayers." 
Luke2:38 And at that very moment she came up and began giving thanks to God, and continued to speak of Him to all those who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem." 
Luke2:39 And when they had finished everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own city of Nazareth." 
Luke2:40 Now the Child continued to grow and become strong, being filled with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon Him." 
Luke2:41 And His parents would go to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover. 
Luke2:42 And when He became twelve years old, they went up there according to the custom of the Feast;" 
Luke2:43 and as they were returning, after finishing the days of the Feast, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. But His parents did not know." 
Luke2:44 But supposing Him to be in the caravan, they went a day’s journey, and they began searching for Him among their relatives and acquaintances." 
Luke2:45 When they did not find Him, they returned to Jerusalem searching for Him." 
Luke2:46 And it happened that after three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions." 
Luke2:47 And all who heard Him were astounded at His understanding and His answers. 
Luke2:48 When they saw Him, they were astonished, and His mother said to Him, “Child, why have You treated us this way? Behold, Your father and I have been anxiously searching for You.”" 
Luke2:49 And He said to them, “Why is it that you were searching for Me? Did you not know that I had to be in My Father’s house?”" 
Luke2:50 But they did not understand the statement which He had spoken to them. 
Luke2:51 And He went down with them and came to Nazareth, and He continued in subjection to them, and His mother was treasuring all these things in her heart." 
Luke2:52 And Jesus was advancing in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men." 
Luke3:1 Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene," 
Luke3:1 Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene," 
Luke3:2 during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness." 
Luke3:2 during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness." 
Luke3:3 And he came into all the district around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins;" 
Luke3:4 as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of the Lord, Make His paths straight." 
Luke3:5 Every ravine will be filled, And every mountain and hill will be brought low; The crooked will be straight, And the rough roads smooth." 
Luke3:6 And all flesh will see the salvation of God.’” 
Luke3:7 So he was saying to the crowds who were going out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?" 
Luke3:8 Therefore bear fruits in keeping with repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham for our father,’ for I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham." 
Luke3:9 But indeed the axe is already laid at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.”" 
Luke3:10 And the crowds were questioning him, saying, “Then what should we do?”" 
Luke3:11 And he would answer and say to them, “The man who has two tunics is to share with him who has none; and he who has food is to do likewise.”" 
Luke3:12 And tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, “Teacher, what should we do?”" 
Luke3:13 And he said to them, “Collect no more than what you have been ordered to.”" 
Luke3:14 And soldiers were also questioning him, saying, “What should we also do?” And he said to them, “Do not take money from anyone by force, or extort anyone, and be content with your wages.”" 
Luke3:15 Now while the people were in a state of expectation and all were reasoning in their hearts about John, as to whether he was the Christ," 
Luke3:15 Now while the people were in a state of expectation and all were reasoning in their hearts about John, as to whether he was the Christ," 
Luke3:16 John answered, saying to them all, “As for me, I baptize you with water, but One is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to untie the strap of His sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire." 
Luke3:16 John answered, saying to them all, “As for me, I baptize you with water, but One is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to untie the strap of His sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire." 
Luke3:17 His winnowing fork is in His hand to thoroughly clear His threshing floor and to gather the wheat into His barn, but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.”" 
Luke3:18 So with many other exhortations he proclaimed the gospel to the people. 
Luke3:19 But when Herod the tetrarch was reproved by him because of Herodias, his brother’s wife, and because of all the wicked things which Herod had done," 
Luke3:20 Herod also added this to them all: he locked John up in prison. 
Luke3:20 Herod also added this to them all: he locked John up in prison. 
Luke3:21 Now it happened that when all the people were being baptized, Jesus was also baptized, and while He was praying, heaven was opened," 
Luke3:22 and the Holy Spirit descended upon Him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came out of heaven, “You are My beloved Son, in You I am well-pleased.”" 
Luke3:23 When He began His ministry, Jesus Himself was about thirty years of age, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, the son of Eli," 
Luke3:24 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph," 
Luke3:25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Hesli, the son of Naggai," 
Luke3:26 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda," 
Luke3:27 the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri," 
Luke3:28 the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er," 
Luke3:29 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi," 
Luke3:30 the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim," 
Luke3:31 the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David," 
Luke3:32 the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon," 
Luke3:33 the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Ram, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah," 
Luke3:34 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor," 
Luke3:35 the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Heber, the son of Shelah," 
Luke3:36 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech," 
Luke3:37 the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan," 
Luke3:38 the son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God." 
Luke4:1 Now Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was being led around by the Spirit in the wilderness" 
Luke4:2 for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And He ate nothing during those days, and when they had finished, He was hungry." 
Luke4:3 And the devil said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread.”" 
Luke4:4 And Jesus answered him, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live on bread alone.’”" 
Luke4:5 And he led Him up and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. 
Luke4:6 And the devil said to Him, “I will give You all this dominion and its glory, for it has been handed over to me, and I give it to whomever I wish." 
Luke4:7 Therefore if You worship before me, it shall all be Yours.”" 
Luke4:8 And Jesus answered and said to him, “It is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God and serve Him only.’”" 
Luke4:9 And he led Him to Jerusalem and had Him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down from here," 
Luke4:10 for it is written, ‘He will command His angels concerning You to guard You,’" 
Luke4:11 and, ‘On their hands they will bear You up, Lest You strike Your foot against a stone.’”" 
Luke4:12 And Jesus answered and said to him, “It is said, ‘You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.’”" 
Luke4:13 And when the devil had finished every temptation, he left Him until an opportune time." 
Luke4:14 And Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit, and news about Him spread through all the surrounding district." 
Luke4:15 And He was teaching in their synagogues, being glorified by all." 
Luke4:16 And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and as was His custom, He entered the synagogue on the Sabbath and stood up to read." 
Luke4:17 And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. And He opened the scroll and found the place where it was written," 
Luke4:18 “The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, Because He anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent Me to proclaim release to the captives, And recovery of sight to the blind, To set free those who are oppressed," 
Luke4:19 To proclaim the favorable year of the Lord.” 
Luke4:20 And He closed the scroll, gave it back to the attendant and sat down, and the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on Him." 
Luke4:21 And He began to say to them, “Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.”" 
Luke4:22 And all were speaking well of Him and marveling at the gracious words which were coming forth from His lips, and they were saying, “Is this not Joseph’s son?”" 
Luke4:23 And He said to them, “No doubt you will quote this proverb to Me, ‘Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we heard took place at Capernaum, do also here in your hometown as well.’”" 
Luke4:24 And He said, “Truly I say to you, no prophet is welcome in his hometown." 
Luke4:25 But I say to you in truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, when a great famine came over all the land," 
Luke4:26 and yet Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow." 
Luke4:27 And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian.”" 
Luke4:28 And all the people in the synagogue were filled with rage as they heard these things," 
Luke4:29 and they stood up and drove Him out of the city, and led Him to the edge of the hill on which their city had been built, in order to throw Him down the cliff." 
Luke4:30 But passing through their midst, He went on His way." 
Luke4:31 And He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and He was teaching them on the Sabbath;" 
Luke4:32 and they were amazed at His teaching, for His message was with authority." 
Luke4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man possessed by the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice," 
Luke4:34 “Let us alone! What do we have to do with You, Jesus the Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are—the Holy One of God!”" 
Luke4:35 But Jesus rebuked it, saying, “Be quiet and come out of him!” And when the demon had thrown him down in the midst of the people, it came out of him without doing him any harm." 
Luke4:36 And amazement came upon them all, and they were talking with one another saying, “What is this message? For with authority and power He commands the unclean spirits and they come out.”" 
Luke4:37 And the report about Him was spreading into every place in the surrounding district. 
Luke4:38 Then He stood up and left the synagogue, and entered Simon’s home. Now Simon’s mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever, and they asked Him to help her." 
Luke4:39 And standing over her, He rebuked the fever, and it left her. Immediately she stood up and began waiting on them." 
Luke4:40 And while the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to Him, and laying His hands on each one of them, He was healing them." 
Luke4:41 And demons also were coming out of many, shouting and saying, “You are the Son of God!” But rebuking them, He was not allowing them to speak, because they knew Him to be the Christ." 
Luke4:42 When day came, Jesus left and went to a secluded place; and the crowds were eagerly seeking for Him, and came to Him and tried to keep Him from going away from them." 
Luke4:43 But He said to them, “I must proclaim the good news of the kingdom of God to the other cities also, for I was sent for this purpose.”" 
Luke4:44 So He kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea. 
Luke4:44 So He kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea. 
Luke5:1 Now it happened that while the crowd was pressing around Him and listening to the word of God, He was standing at the edge of the lake of Gennesaret;" 
Luke5:2 and He saw two boats lying at the edge of the lake, and the fishermen, having gotten out of them, were washing their nets." 
Luke5:3 And He got into one of the boats, which was Simon’s, and asked him to put out a little way from the land. And He sat down and began teaching the crowds from the boat." 
Luke5:4 And when He had finished speaking, He said to Simon, “Put out into the deep water and let down your nets for a catch.”" 
Luke5:5 Simon answered and said, “Master, we labored all night and caught nothing, but at Your word, I will let down the nets.”" 
Luke5:6 And when they had done this, they enclosed a great quantity of fish. And their nets began to break;" 
Luke5:7 so they signaled to their partners in the other boat for them to come and help them. And they came and filled both of the boats, so that they began to sink." 
Luke5:8 But when Simon Peter saw this, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Go away from me Lord, for I am a sinful man!”" 
Luke5:9 For amazement had seized him and all his companions because of the catch of fish which they had taken," 
Luke5:10 and James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon, were also likewise amazed. And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear, from now on you will be catching men.”" 
Luke5:10 and James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon, were also likewise amazed. And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear, from now on you will be catching men.”" 
Luke5:10 and James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon, were also likewise amazed. And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear, from now on you will be catching men.”" 
Luke5:11 And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed Him." 
Luke5:12 And it happened that while He was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man covered with leprosy; and when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged Him, saying, “Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean.”" 
Luke5:13 And He stretched out His hand and touched him, saying, “I am willing; be cleansed.” And immediately the leprosy left him." 
Luke5:14 And He directed him to tell no one, “But go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing, just as Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”" 
Luke5:15 But the news about Him was spreading even farther, and large crowds were gathering to hear Him and to be healed of their sicknesses." 
Luke5:16 But He Himself would often slip away to the desolate regions and pray. 
Luke5:17 And it happened that one day He was teaching; and there were some Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was present for Him to perform healing." 
Luke5:17 And it happened that one day He was teaching; and there were some Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was present for Him to perform healing." 
Luke5:18 And behold, some men were carrying on a stretcher a man who was paralyzed; and they were trying to bring him in and to set him down before Him." 
Luke5:19 But not finding any way to bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down through the tiles with his stretcher, into the middle of the crowd, in front of Jesus." 
Luke5:20 And seeing their faith, He said, “Friend, your sins are forgiven you.”" 
Luke5:21 The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, “Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?”" 
Luke5:22 But Jesus, knowing their reasonings, answered and said to them, “Why are you reasoning in your hearts?" 
Luke5:23 Which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins have been forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?" 
Luke5:24 But, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,”—He said to the paralytic—“I say to you, get up, and, picking up your stretcher, go home.”" 
Luke5:25 And immediately he rose up before them, and picked up what he had been lying on, and went home glorifying God." 
Luke5:26 And astonishment seized them all and they began glorifying God; and they were filled with fear, saying, “We have seen remarkable things today.”" 
Luke5:27 And after that He went out and noticed a tax collector named Levi sitting in the tax office, and He said to him, “Follow Me.”" 
Luke5:28 And he left everything behind, and rose up and began to follow Him." 
Luke5:29 And Levi gave a big reception for Him in his house; and there was a great crowd of tax collectors and other people who were reclining at the table with them. 
Luke5:30 And the Pharisees and their scribes began grumbling at His disciples, saying, “Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?”" 
Luke5:31 And Jesus answered and said to them, “It is not those who are well who need a physician, but those who are sick." 
Luke5:32 I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.” 
Luke5:33 And they said to Him, “The disciples of John often fast and offer prayers, the disciples of the Pharisees also do likewise, but Yours eat and drink.”" 
Luke5:33 And they said to Him, “The disciples of John often fast and offer prayers, the disciples of the Pharisees also do likewise, but Yours eat and drink.”" 
Luke5:34 And Jesus said to them, “Can you make the attendants of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them?" 
Luke5:35 But the days will come; and when the bridegroom is taken away from them, then they will fast in those days.”" 
Luke5:36 And He was also telling them a parable: “No one tears a piece of cloth from a new garment and puts it on an old garment; otherwise he will both tear the new and the piece from the new will not match the old. 
Luke5:37 And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled out, and the skins will be ruined." 
Luke5:38 But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins. 
Luke5:39 And no one, after drinking old wine wishes for new; for he says, ‘The old is good enough.’”" 
Luke6:1 Now it happened that on a Sabbath He was passing through some grainfields, and His disciples were picking and eating the heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands." 
Luke6:2 But some of the Pharisees said, “Why do you do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?”" 
Luke6:3 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Have you never read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him," 
Luke6:4 how he entered the house of God, and took and ate the consecrated bread which is not lawful for any to eat except the priests alone, and gave it to his companions?”" 
Luke6:5 And He was saying to them, “The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.”" 
Luke6:6 Now it happened that on another Sabbath He entered the synagogue and was teaching; and there was a man there whose right hand was withered. 
Luke6:7 And the scribes and the Pharisees were watching Him closely to see if He heals on the Sabbath, so that they might find reason to accuse Him." 
Luke6:8 But He knew what they were thinking, and He said to the man with the withered hand, “Get up and come forward!” And he stood up and came forward." 
Luke6:9 And Jesus said to them, “I ask you, is it lawful to do good or to do harm on the Sabbath, to save a life or to destroy it?”" 
Luke6:10 And after looking around at them all, He said to him, “Stretch out your hand!” And he did so, and his hand was restored." 
Luke6:11 But they themselves were filled with rage, and were discussing together what they might do to Jesus." 
Luke6:12 Now it happened that at this time He went off to the mountain to pray, and He was spending the whole night in prayer to God." 
Luke6:13 And when day came, He called His disciples to Him and chose twelve of them, whom He also named as apostles:" 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom He also named Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James and John; and Philip and Bartholomew;" 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom He also named Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James and John; and Philip and Bartholomew;" 
Luke6:14 Simon, whom He also named Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James and John; and Philip and Bartholomew;" 
Luke6:15 and Matthew and Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot;" 
Luke6:15 and Matthew and Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot;" 
Luke6:15 and Matthew and Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot;" 
Luke6:16 Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor." 
Luke6:16 Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor." 
Luke6:17 And Jesus came down with them and stood on a level place; and there was a large crowd of His disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the coastal region of Tyre and Sidon," 
Luke6:17 And Jesus came down with them and stood on a level place; and there was a large crowd of His disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the coastal region of Tyre and Sidon," 
Luke6:18 who had come to hear Him and to be healed of their diseases; and those who were troubled with unclean spirits were being cured. 
Luke6:19 And all the crowd was trying to touch Him, for power was coming from Him and healing them all." 
Luke6:20 And turning His gaze toward His disciples, He began to say, “Blessed are the poor, for yours is the kingdom of God." 
Luke6:21 Blessed are those who hunger now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are those who cry now, for you shall laugh." 
Luke6:22 Blessed are you when men hate you, and exclude you, and insult you, and scorn your name as evil, for the sake of the Son of Man." 
Luke6:23 Be glad in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For their fathers were doing the same things to the prophets." 
Luke6:24 But woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full." 
Luke6:25 Woe to you who are well-fed now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and cry." 
Luke6:26 Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers were doing the same things to the false prophets." 
Luke6:27 “But I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you," 
Luke6:28 bless those who curse you, pray for those who disparage you." 
Luke6:29 Whoever hits you on the cheek, offer him the other also; and whoever takes away your garment, do not withhold your tunic from him either." 
Luke6:30 Give to everyone who asks of you, and whoever takes away what is yours, do not demand it back." 
Luke6:31 And treat others the same way you want them to treat you. 
Luke6:32 And if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them." 
Luke6:33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same." 
Luke6:34 And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners in order to receive back the same amount." 
Luke6:35 But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return; and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; for He Himself is kind to the ungrateful and evil." 
Luke6:36 Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful." 
Luke6:37 “And do not judge, and you will not be judged; and do not condemn, and you will not be condemned; pardon, and you will be pardoned." 
Luke6:38 Give, and it will be given to you. They will pour into your lap a good measure—pressed down, shaken together, running over. For by your standard of measure it will be measured to you in return.”" 
Luke6:39 And He also spoke a parable to them: “Can a blind man guide a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit? 
Luke6:40 A student is not above his teacher; but everyone, after he has been fully trained, will be like his teacher." 
Luke6:41 And why do you look at the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?" 
Luke6:42 How can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye,’ when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother’s eye." 
Luke6:43 For there is no good tree which produces bad fruit, nor, on the other hand, a bad tree which produces good fruit." 
Luke6:44 For each tree is known by its own fruit. For men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they pick grapes from a bramble bush." 
Luke6:45 The good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth what is good; and the evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth what is evil. For his mouth speaks from the abundance of his heart. 
Luke6:46 “Now why do you call Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and do not do what I say?" 
Luke6:47 Everyone who comes to Me and hears My words and does them, I will show you whom he is like:" 
Luke6:48 he is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep, and laid a foundation on the rock; and when a flood occurred, the river burst against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built." 
Luke6:49 But the one who heard and did not do accordingly, is like a man who built a house on the ground without any foundation; and the river burst against it and immediately it collapsed, and the ruin of that house was great.”" 
Luke7:1 When He had completed all His words in the hearing of the people, He went to Capernaum." 
Luke7:2 And a centurion’s slave, who was highly regarded by him, was sick and about to die." 
Luke7:3 Now when he heard about Jesus, he sent some Jewish elders asking Him to come and save the life of his slave." 
Luke7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they were earnestly pleading with Him, saying, “He is worthy for You to grant this to him;" 
Luke7:5 for he loves our nation and it was he who built us our synagogue.” 
Luke7:6 Now Jesus was going on His way with them; and when He was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to Him, “Lord, do not trouble Yourself further, for I am not good enough for You to come under my roof." 
Luke7:7 For this reason I did not even consider myself worthy to come to You, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed." 
Luke7:8 For I also am a man placed under authority, with soldiers under me; and I say to this one, ‘Go!’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come!’ and he comes, and to my slave, ‘Do this!’ and he does it.”" 
Luke7:9 Now when Jesus heard this, He marveled at him. And He turned to the crowd that was following Him and said, “I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith.”" 
Luke7:10 And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the slave in good health." 
Luke7:11 And it happened that soon afterwards He went to a city called Nain, and His disciples were going along with Him, accompanied by a large crowd." 
Luke7:12 Now as He approached the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a sizeable crowd from the city was with her." 
Luke7:13 And when the Lord saw her, He felt compassion for her and said to her, “Do not cry.”" 
Luke7:14 And He came up and touched the coffin, and the bearers came to a halt. And He said, “Young man, I say to you, arise!”" 
Luke7:15 And the dead man sat up and began to speak. And Jesus gave him back to his mother. 
Luke7:16 And fear gripped them all, and they began glorifying God, saying, “A great prophet has arisen among us!” and, “God has visited His people!”" 
Luke7:17 And this report concerning Him went out all over Judea and in all the surrounding district. 
Luke7:17 And this report concerning Him went out all over Judea and in all the surrounding district. 
Luke7:18 And the disciples of John reported to him about all these things. 
Luke7:18 And the disciples of John reported to him about all these things. 
Luke7:19 Summoning two of his disciples, John sent them to the Lord, saying, “Are You the One who is to come, or should we look for someone else?”" 
Luke7:19 Summoning two of his disciples, John sent them to the Lord, saying, “Are You the One who is to come, or should we look for someone else?”" 
Luke7:20 When the men came to Him, they said, “John the Baptist has sent us to You, saying, ‘Are You the One who is to come, or should we look for someone else?’”" 
Luke7:20 When the men came to Him, they said, “John the Baptist has sent us to You, saying, ‘Are You the One who is to come, or should we look for someone else?’”" 
Luke7:21 At that very time He cured many people of diseases and afflictions and evil spirits, and He granted sight to many who were blind." 
Luke7:22 And He answered and said to them, “Go and report to John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have the gospel preached to them." 
Luke7:22 And He answered and said to them, “Go and report to John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have the gospel preached to them." 
Luke7:23 Blessed is he who does not take offense at Me.” 
Luke7:24 And when the messengers of John had left, He began to speak to the crowds about John, “What did you go out into the wilderness to behold? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Luke7:24 And when the messengers of John had left, He began to speak to the crowds about John, “What did you go out into the wilderness to behold? A reed shaken by the wind?" 
Luke7:25 But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft garments? Behold, those who are splendidly clothed and live in luxury are found in royal palaces!" 
Luke7:26 But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and even more than a prophet." 
Luke7:27 This is the one about whom it is written, ‘Behold, I send My messenger ahead of You, Who will prepare Your way before You.’" 
Luke7:28 I say to you, among those born of women there is no one greater than John; yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”" 
Luke7:28 I say to you, among those born of women there is no one greater than John; yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”" 
Luke7:29 And when all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they acknowledged God’s justice, having been baptized with the baptism of John." 
Luke7:29 And when all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they acknowledged God’s justice, having been baptized with the baptism of John." 
Luke7:30 But the Pharisees and the scholars of the Law rejected God’s purpose for themselves, not having been baptized by John." 
Luke7:30 But the Pharisees and the scholars of the Law rejected God’s purpose for themselves, not having been baptized by John." 
Luke7:31 “To what then shall I compare the men of this generation, and what are they like?" 
Luke7:32 They are like children, sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, who say, ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not cry.’" 
Luke7:33 For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon!’" 
Luke7:33 For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon!’" 
Luke7:34 The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’" 
Luke7:35 Yet wisdom is vindicated by all her children.” 
Luke7:36 Now one of the Pharisees was asking Him to eat with him, and He entered the Pharisee’s house and reclined at the table." 
Luke7:37 And behold, there was a woman in the city who was a sinner. And when she learned that He was reclining at the table in the Pharisee’s house, she brought an alabaster jar of perfume." 
Luke7:38 And standing behind Him at His feet, crying, she began to wet His feet with her tears. And she kept wiping them with the hair of her head, and kissing His feet and anointing them with the perfume." 
Luke7:39 Now when the Pharisee, who had invited Him, saw this, he said to himself, saying, “If this man were a prophet He would know who and what sort of person this woman is who is touching Him, that she is a sinner.”" 
Luke7:40 And Jesus answered and said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” And he replied, “Say it, Teacher.”" 
Luke7:41 “A moneylender had two debtors: one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty." 
Luke7:42 When they were unable to repay, he graciously forgave them both. So which of them will love him more?”" 
Luke7:43 Simon answered and said, “I suppose the one whom he graciously forgave more.” And He said to him, “You have judged correctly.”" 
Luke7:44 And turning toward the woman, He said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I entered your house; you gave Me no water for My feet, but she has wet My feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair." 
Luke7:45 You gave Me no kiss; but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss My feet." 
Luke7:46 You did not anoint My head with oil, but she anointed My feet with perfume." 
Luke7:47 For this reason I say to you, her sins, which are many, have been forgiven, for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.”" 
Luke7:48 Then He said to her, “Your sins have been forgiven.”" 
Luke7:49 And those who were reclining at the table with Him began to say to themselves, “Who is this man who even forgives sins?”" 
Luke7:50 And He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”" 
Luke8:1 And it happened that soon afterward He was going around from one city and village to another, preaching and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom of God. The twelve were with Him," 
Luke8:2 and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses: Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out," 
Luke8:3 and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod’s manager, and Susanna, and many others who were ministering to them from their possessions." 
Luke8:4 Now when a large crowd was coming together, and those from the various cities were journeying to Him, He spoke by way of a parable:" 
Luke8:5 “The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell beside the road, and it was trampled under foot and the birds of the air ate it up." 
Luke8:6 And other seed fell on rock and as soon as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture." 
Luke8:7 And other seed fell among the thorns, and when the thorns grew up with it, they choked it out." 
Luke8:8 And other seed fell into the good soil; and growing up, it produced a crop one hundred times as great.” As He said these things, He would call out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Luke8:9 And His disciples began questioning Him as to what this parable meant. 
Luke8:10 And He said, “To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest it is in parables, so that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand." 
Luke8:11 “Now the parable is this: the seed is the word of God. 
Luke8:12 And those beside the road are those who have heard; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their heart, so that they will not believe and be saved." 
Luke8:13 And those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy, and these have no root; they believe for a while, and in time of temptation fall away." 
Luke8:14 And the seed which fell among the thorns, these are the ones who have heard, and as they go on their way they are choked with worries and riches and pleasures of life, and do not bear ripe fruit." 
Luke8:15 But the seed in the good soil, these are the ones who have heard the word in an honest and good heart, and hold it fast, and bear fruit with perseverance." 
Luke8:16 “Now no one after lighting a lamp covers it with a container or puts it under a bed, but he puts it on a lampstand, so that those who come in may see the light." 
Luke8:17 For nothing is hidden that will not become evident, nor anything secret that will not be known and come to light." 
Luke8:18 So beware how you listen, for whoever has, to him more shall be given; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has shall be taken away from him.”" 
Luke8:19 And His mother and brothers came to Him, and they were unable to get to Him because of the crowd." 
Luke8:20 And it was reported to Him, “Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, wishing to see You.”" 
Luke8:21 But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”" 
Luke8:22 Now it happened that on one of those days He and His disciples got into a boat, and He said to them, “Let us go over to the other side of the lake.” So they set sail." 
Luke8:23 But as they were sailing along, He fell asleep, and a windstorm descended on the lake, and they began to be swamped and in danger." 
Luke8:24 And they came to Him and woke Him up, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” And He woke up and rebuked the wind and the surging waves, and they stopped, and it became calm." 
Luke8:25 And He said to them, “Where is your faith?” They were fearful and marveled, saying to one another, “Who then is this, that He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey Him?”" 
Luke8:26 Then they sailed to the region of the Gerasenes, which is opposite Galilee." 
Luke8:27 And when He came out onto the land, a man from the city met Him, one who was possessed with demons and had not put on any garment for a long time, and was not living in a house, but in the tombs." 
Luke8:28 Now seeing Jesus, he cried out and fell before Him, and said in a loud voice, “What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg You, do not torment me.”" 
Luke8:29 For He had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For it had seized him many times, and he was bound with chains and shackles, being kept under guard. And yet breaking his bonds, he was driven by the demon into the desolate regions." 
Luke8:30 And Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” for many demons had entered him." 
Luke8:31 And they were pleading with Him not to command them to go away into the abyss. 
Luke8:32 Now there was a herd of many swine feeding there on the mountain, and the demons pleaded with Him to permit them to enter the swine. And He gave them permission." 
Luke8:33 And when the demons came out of the man, they entered the swine, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned." 
Luke8:34 And when the herdsmen saw what had happened, they ran away and reported it in the city and in the countryside." 
Luke8:35 And the people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting down at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid." 
Luke8:36 And those who had seen it reported to them how the man who was demon-possessed had been saved. 
Luke8:37 And all the people of the country of the Gerasenes and the surrounding district asked Him to leave them, for they were gripped with great fear. And He got into a boat and returned." 
Luke8:38 But the man from whom the demons had gone out was begging Him that he might accompany Him. But He sent him away, saying," 
Luke8:39 “Return to your house and recount what great things God has done for you.” So he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him." 
Luke8:40 And as Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed Him, for they had all been waiting for Him." 
Luke8:41 And behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was an official of the synagogue. And falling at Jesus’ feet, he began to plead with Him to come to his house," 
Luke8:42 for he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. But as He went, the crowds were pressing against Him." 
Luke8:43 And a woman who had a hemorrhage for twelve years, and could not be healed by anyone," 
Luke8:44 came up behind Him and touched the fringe of His garment, and immediately her hemorrhage stopped." 
Luke8:45 And Jesus said, “Who is the one who touched Me?” And while they were all denying it, Peter said, “Master, the crowds are surrounding and pressing in on You.”" 
Luke8:46 But Jesus said, “Someone did touch Me, for I knew that power had gone out of Me.”" 
Luke8:47 And when the woman saw that she had not escaped notice, she came trembling. And falling down before Him, she declared in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched Him and how she had been immediately healed." 
Luke8:48 And He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has saved you; go in peace.”" 
Luke8:49 While He was still speaking, someone came from the house of the synagogue official, saying, “Your daughter has died; do not trouble the Teacher anymore.”" 
Luke8:50 But when Jesus heard this, He answered him, “Do not be afraid any longer; only believe, and she will be saved.”" 
Luke8:51 So when He came to the house, He did not allow anyone to enter with Him, except Peter and John and James, and the girl’s father and mother." 
Luke8:51 So when He came to the house, He did not allow anyone to enter with Him, except Peter and John and James, and the girl’s father and mother." 
Luke8:51 So when He came to the house, He did not allow anyone to enter with Him, except Peter and John and James, and the girl’s father and mother." 
Luke8:52 Now they were all crying and lamenting for her, but He said, “Stop crying, for she has not died, but is asleep.”" 
Luke8:53 And they began laughing at Him, knowing that she had died." 
Luke8:54 He, however, took her by the hand and called, saying, “Child, arise!”" 
Luke8:55 And her spirit returned, and she stood up immediately. And He gave orders for something to be given her to eat." 
Luke8:56 And her parents were astounded, but He directed them to tell no one what had happened." 
Luke9:1 And calling the twelve together, He gave them power and authority over all the demons and to heal diseases." 
Luke9:2 And He sent them out to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 
Luke9:3 And He said to them, “Take nothing for your journey, neither a staff, nor a bag, nor bread, nor money; nor have two tunics apiece." 
Luke9:4 And whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave that city." 
Luke9:5 And as for those who do not receive you, as you go out from that city, shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.”" 
Luke9:6 And departing, they were going throughout the villages, proclaiming the gospel and healing everywhere." 
Luke9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was happening, and he was greatly perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead," 
Luke9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was happening, and he was greatly perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead," 
Luke9:8 and by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the prophets of old had risen again." 
Luke9:9 And Herod said, “I myself had John beheaded, but who is this man about whom I hear such things?” And he kept trying to see Him." 
Luke9:9 And Herod said, “I myself had John beheaded, but who is this man about whom I hear such things?” And he kept trying to see Him." 
Luke9:10 And when the apostles returned, they recounted to Him all that they had done. Taking them with Him, He slipped away by Himself to a city called Bethsaida." 
Luke9:11 But when the crowds became aware of this, they followed Him; and welcoming them, He began speaking to them about the kingdom of God and curing those who had need of healing." 
Luke9:12 Now the day was ending, and the twelve came and said to Him, “Send the crowd away, that they may go into the surrounding villages and countryside and obtain lodging and find provisions, for here we are in a desolate place.”" 
Luke9:13 But He said to them, “You give them something to eat!” And they said, “We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless perhaps we go and buy food for all these people.”" 
Luke9:14 (For there were about five thousand men.) And He said to His disciples, “Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.”" 
Luke9:15 And they did so, and had them all sit down." 
Luke9:16 Then He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed them. And He broke them and kept giving them to the disciples to set before the crowd." 
Luke9:17 And they all ate and were satisfied; and the broken pieces which they had left over were picked up, twelve baskets full." 
Luke9:18 And it happened that while He was praying alone, the disciples were with Him, and He questioned them, saying, “Who do the crowds say that I am?”" 
Luke9:19 And they answered and said, “John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, but others, that one of the prophets of old has risen again.”" 
Luke9:19 And they answered and said, “John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, but others, that one of the prophets of old has risen again.”" 
Luke9:20 And He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” And Peter answered and said, “The Christ of God.”" 
Luke9:21 But He warned them and directed them not to tell this to anyone," 
Luke9:22 saying, “The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed and be raised up on the third day.”" 
Luke9:23 And He was saying to them all, “If anyone wishes to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily and follow Me." 
Luke9:24 For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake, he is the one who will save it." 
Luke9:25 For what is a man profited if he gains the whole world, and loses or forfeits himself?" 
Luke9:26 For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when He comes in His glory, and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels." 
Luke9:27 But I say to you truthfully, there are some of those standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke9:28 Now it happened some eight days after these words, that taking along Peter and John and James, He went up on the mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 Now it happened some eight days after these words, that taking along Peter and John and James, He went up on the mountain to pray." 
Luke9:28 Now it happened some eight days after these words, that taking along Peter and John and James, He went up on the mountain to pray." 
Luke9:29 And it happened that while He was praying, the appearance of His face became different, and His clothing became white and gleaming." 
Luke9:30 And behold, two men were talking with Him, and they were Moses and Elijah," 
Luke9:31 who, appearing in glory, were speaking of His departure which He was about to fulfill at Jerusalem." 
Luke9:32 Now Peter and his companions had been overcome with sleep, but when they were fully awake, they saw His glory and the two men standing with Him." 
Luke9:33 And it happened that as they were leaving Him, Peter said to Jesus, “Master, it is good for us to be here; let us make three booths: one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah”—not realizing what he was saying." 
Luke9:34 While he was saying this, a cloud formed and began to overshadow them; and they were afraid as they entered the cloud." 
Luke9:35 Then a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is My Son, My Chosen One; listen to Him!”" 
Luke9:36 And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent, and reported to no one in those days any of the things which they had seen." 
Luke9:37 Now it happened on the next day, that when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met Him." 
Luke9:38 And behold, a man from the crowd shouted, saying, “Teacher, I beg You to look at my son, for he is my only one," 
Luke9:39 and behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly screams, and it throws him into a convulsion with foaming at the mouth, and only with difficulty does it leave him, mauling him as it leaves." 
Luke9:40 And I begged Your disciples to cast it out, and they could not.”" 
Luke9:41 And Jesus answered and said, “You unbelieving and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and put up with you? Bring your son here.”" 
Luke9:42 Now while he was still approaching, the demon slammed him to the ground and threw him into a convulsion. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father." 
Luke9:43 And they were all astonished at the majesty of God. Jesus Foretells His Death and ResurrectionBut while everyone was marveling at all that He was doing, He said to His disciples," 
Luke9:44 “Put these words into your ears; for the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.” 
Luke9:45 But they did not understand this statement, and it was concealed from them so that they would not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask Him about this statement." 
Luke9:46 Now an argument started among them as to which of them might be the greatest. 
Luke9:47 But Jesus, knowing what they were thinking in their heart, took a child and stood him by His side," 
Luke9:48 and said to them, “Whoever receives this child in My name receives Me, and whoever receives Me receives Him who sent Me; for the one who is least among all of you, this is the one who is great.”" 
Luke9:49 And John answered and said, “Master, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we tried to hinder him because he does not follow along with us.”" 
Luke9:49 And John answered and said, “Master, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we tried to hinder him because he does not follow along with us.”" 
Luke9:50 But Jesus said to him, “Do not hinder him, for he who is not against you is for you.”" 
Luke9:51 Now it happened that when the days for Him to be taken up were soon to be fulfilled, He set His face to go to Jerusalem;" 
Luke9:52 and He sent messengers on ahead of Him, and they went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make arrangements for Him." 
Luke9:53 But they did not receive Him, because He was journeying with His face toward Jerusalem." 
Luke9:54 And when His disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?”" 
Luke9:54 And when His disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?”" 
Luke9:54 And when His disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?”" 
Luke9:55 But He turned and rebuked them, [and said, “You do not know what kind of spirit you are of," 
Luke9:56 for the Son of Man did not come to destroy men’s lives, but to save them.”] And they went on to another village." 
Luke9:57 And as they were going along the road, someone said to Him, “I will follow You wherever You go.”" 
Luke9:58 And Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.”" 
Luke9:59 And He said to another, “Follow Me.” But he said, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.”" 
Luke9:60 But He said to him, “Allow the dead to bury their own dead; but as for you, go and proclaim everywhere the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke9:61 Another also said, “I will follow You, Lord, but first permit me to say farewell to those at home.”" 
Luke9:62 But Jesus said to him, “No one, after putting his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke10:1 Now after this the Lord appointed seventy others, and sent them in pairs ahead of Him to every city and place where He Himself was going to come." 
Luke10:2 And He was saying to them, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest." 
Luke10:3 Go! Behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves." 
Luke10:4 Carry no money belt, no bag, no sandals, and greet no one on the way." 
Luke10:5 Whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace be to this house.’" 
Luke10:6 And if a man of peace is there, your peace will rest on him, but if not, it will return to you." 
Luke10:7 Stay in that house, eating and drinking what they give you; for the laborer is worthy of his wages. Do not keep moving from house to house." 
Luke10:8 And whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat what is set before you;" 
Luke10:9 and heal those in it who are sick, and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.’" 
Luke10:10 But in whatever city you enter and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say," 
Luke10:11 ‘Even the dust of your city which clings to our feet we wipe off against you; yet know this, that the kingdom of God is at hand.’" 
Luke10:12 I say to you, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city." 
Luke10:13 “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles had been performed in Tyre and Sidon which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes." 
Luke10:14 But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. 
Luke10:15 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades!" 
Luke10:16 “The one who listens to you listens to Me, and the one who rejects you rejects Me. And he who rejects Me rejects the One who sent Me.”" 
Luke10:17 Now the seventy returned with joy, saying, “Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name.”" 
Luke10:18 And He said to them, “I was watching Satan fall from heaven like lightning." 
Luke10:19 Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing will injure you." 
Luke10:20 Nevertheless do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are recorded in heaven.”" 
Luke10:21 At that very time He rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit, and said, “I praise You, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for this way was well-pleasing in Your sight." 
Luke10:22 All things have been handed over to Me by My Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.”" 
Luke10:23 And turning to the disciples, He said privately, “Blessed are the eyes which see the things you see," 
Luke10:24 for I say to you, that many prophets and kings wished to see the things which you see, and did not see them, and to hear the things which you hear, and did not hear them.”" 
Luke10:25 And behold, a scholar of the Law stood up and was putting Him to the test, saying, “Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?”" 
Luke10:26 And He said to him, “What is written in the Law? How do you read it?”" 
Luke10:27 And he answered and said, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself.”" 
Luke10:28 And He said to him, “You have answered correctly; do this and you will live.”" 
Luke10:29 But wishing to justify himself, he said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”" 
Luke10:30 Jesus replied and said, “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among robbers, and they stripped him and beat him, and went away leaving him half dead." 
Luke10:31 And a priest happened to be going down on that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side." 
Luke10:32 Likewise a Levite also, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side." 
Luke10:33 But a Samaritan, who was on a journey, came upon him, and when he saw him, he felt compassion." 
Luke10:34 And he came to him and bandaged up his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them, and he put him on his own animal, and brought him to an inn and took care of him." 
Luke10:35 And on the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper and said, ‘Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, when I return I will repay you.’" 
Luke10:36 Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell into the robbers’ hands?” 
Luke10:37 And he said, “The one who showed mercy toward him.” Then Jesus said to him, “Go and do the same.”" 
Luke10:38 Now as they were traveling along, He entered a village; and a woman named Martha welcomed Him into her home." 
Luke10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, who was also seated at the Lord’s feet, listening to His word." 
Luke10:40 But Martha was distracted with all her preparations; and she came up to Him and said, “Lord, do You not care that my sister has left me to do all the preparations alone? Then tell her to help me.”" 
Luke10:41 But the Lord answered and said to her, “Martha, Martha, you are worried and bothered about so many things," 
Luke10:42 but only one thing is necessary, for Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her.”" 
Luke11:1 And it happened that while Jesus was praying in a certain place, after He had finished, one of His disciples said to Him, “Lord, teach us to pray just as John also taught his disciples.”" 
Luke11:1 And it happened that while Jesus was praying in a certain place, after He had finished, one of His disciples said to Him, “Lord, teach us to pray just as John also taught his disciples.”" 
Luke11:2 And He said to them, “When you pray, say: ‘Father, hallowed be Your name. Your kingdom come." 
Luke11:3 Give us each day our daily bread. 
Luke11:4 And forgive us our sins, For we ourselves also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation.’”" 
Luke11:5 Then He said to them, “Which of you has a friend and will go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves," 
Luke11:6 for a friend of mine has come to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him’;" 
Luke11:7 and from inside he answers and says, ‘Do not bother me; the door has already been shut and my children and I are in bed; I cannot rise up and give you anything.’" 
Luke11:8 I tell you, even though he will not arise and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence he will get up and give him as much as he needs." 
Luke11:9 “So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you." 
Luke11:10 For everyone who asks, receives; and he who seeks, finds; and to him who knocks, it will be opened." 
Luke11:11 But what father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead of a fish?" 
Luke11:12 Or, if his son asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?" 
Luke11:13 If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him?”" 
Luke11:14 And He was casting out a demon, and it was mute. Now it happened that when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the crowds marveled." 
Luke11:15 But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the ruler of the demons.”" 
Luke11:16 And others, testing Him, were seeking from Him a sign from heaven." 
Luke11:17 But He knew their thoughts and said to them, “Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a house divided against itself falls." 
Luke11:18 But if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul." 
Luke11:19 And if I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason, they will be your judges." 
Luke11:20 But if I cast out demons by the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you." 
Luke11:21 When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own house, his possessions are undisturbed." 
Luke11:22 But when someone stronger than he attacks him and overpowers him, he takes away from him all his armor on which he had relied and distributes his plunder." 
Luke11:23 He who is not with Me is against Me and he who does not gather with Me, scatters." 
Luke11:24 “When the unclean spirit goes out of a man, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, and not finding any, it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’" 
Luke11:25 And when it comes, it finds it swept and put in order." 
Luke11:26 Then it goes and takes along seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they go in and live there, and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first.”" 
Luke11:27 Now it happened that while Jesus was saying these things, one of the women in the crowd raised her voice and said to Him, “Blessed is the womb that bore You and the breasts at which You nursed.”" 
Luke11:28 But He said, “On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it.”" 
Luke11:29 Now as the crowds were increasing, He began to say, “This generation is a wicked generation; it seeks a sign, and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah." 
Luke11:30 For just as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so will the Son of Man be to this generation." 
Luke11:31 The Queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, something greater than Solomon is here." 
Luke11:32 The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here." 
Luke11:33 “No one, after lighting a lamp, puts it away in a cellar nor under a basket, but on the lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light." 
Luke11:34 The eye is the lamp of your body; when your eye is clear, your whole body also is full of light, but when it is bad, your body also is full of darkness." 
Luke11:35 Therefore watch out that the light in you is not darkness. 
Luke11:36 If therefore your whole body is full of light, with no dark part in it, it will be wholly illumined, as when the lamp illumines you with its rays.”" 
Luke11:37 Now when He had spoken, a Pharisee asked Him to have a meal with him. And He went in and reclined at the table." 
Luke11:38 But when the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that He had not first ceremonially washed before the meal." 
Luke11:39 But the Lord said to him, “Now you Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but inside of you, you are full of robbery and wickedness." 
Luke11:40 You foolish ones, did not He who made the outside make the inside also?" 
Luke11:41 But give that which is within as charity, and then all things are clean for you." 
Luke11:42 “But woe to you Pharisees! For you pay tithe of mint and rue and every kind of garden herb, and yet disregard justice and the love of God, but these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others." 
Luke11:43 Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seat in the synagogues and the respectful greetings in the marketplaces. 
Luke11:44 Woe to you! For you are like concealed tombs, and the people who walk over them are unaware of it.”" 
Luke11:45 Now one of the scholars of the Law answered and said to Him, “Teacher, when You say these things, You insult us too.”" 
Luke11:46 But He said, “Woe to you scholars of the Law as well! For you weigh men down with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves will not even touch the burdens with one of your fingers." 
Luke11:47 Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets, but your fathers killed them." 
Luke11:48 So you are witnesses and approve the deeds of your fathers; because it was they who killed them, and you build their tombs." 
Luke11:49 For this reason also the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send to them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill and some they will persecute," 
Luke11:50 so that the blood of all the prophets, shed since the foundation of the world, may be charged against this generation," 
Luke11:51 from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the house of God; yes, I tell you, it shall be charged against this generation.’" 
Luke11:52 Woe to you, scholars of the Law! For you have taken away the key of knowledge; you yourselves did not enter, and you hindered those who were entering.”" 
Luke11:53 And when He left there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be very hostile and to question Him closely on many subjects," 
Luke11:54 plotting to catch Him in something He might say. 
Luke12:1 At this time, after so many thousands of the crowd had gathered together that they were trampling on one another, He began saying to His disciples first, “Be on your guard for the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy." 
Luke12:2 But there is nothing covered up that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known." 
Luke12:3 Accordingly, whatever you have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed upon the housetops." 
Luke12:4 “But I say to you, My friends, do not fear those who kill the body and after that have no more that they can do." 
Luke12:5 But I will show you whom to fear: fear the One who, after He has killed, has authority to cast into hell; yes, I tell you, fear Him!" 
Luke12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two assaria? Yet not one of them is forgotten before God. 
Luke12:7 Indeed, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear; you are more valuable than many sparrows." 
Luke12:8 “And I say to you, everyone who confesses Me before men, the Son of Man will confess him also before the angels of God," 
Luke12:9 but he who denies Me before men will be denied before the angels of God. 
Luke12:10 And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him, but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him." 
Luke12:11 Now when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not worry about how or what you are to speak in your defense, or what you are to say," 
Luke12:12 for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.” 
Luke12:13 And someone from the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the family inheritance with me.”" 
Luke12:14 But He said to him, “Man, who appointed Me a judge or arbitrator over you?”" 
Luke12:15 Then He said to them, “Watch out and be on your guard against every form of greed, for not even when one has an abundance does his life consist of his possessions.”" 
Luke12:16 And He told them a parable, saying, “The land of a rich man was very productive." 
Luke12:17 And he began reasoning to himself, saying, ‘What shall I do, since I have no place to store my crops?’" 
Luke12:18 Then he said, ‘This is what I will do: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods." 
Luke12:19 And I will say to my soul, “Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years to come; take your ease, eat, drink and be merry.”’" 
Luke12:20 But God said to him, ‘You fool! This very night your soul is required of you; and now who will own what you prepared?’" 
Luke12:21 So is the one who stores up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.”" 
Luke12:22 And He said to His disciples, “For this reason I say to you, do not worry about your life, as to what you will eat; nor for your body, as to what you will put on." 
Luke12:23 For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing." 
Luke12:24 Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap; they have no storeroom nor barn, and yet God feeds them; how much more valuable you are than the birds!" 
Luke12:25 And which of you by worrying can add a single cubit to his life span? 
Luke12:26 Therefore, if you cannot do even a very little thing, why do you worry about other matters?" 
Luke12:27 Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, but I tell you, not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these." 
Luke12:28 But if God so clothes the grass in the field, which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, how much more will He clothe you? You of little faith!" 
Luke12:29 And do not seek what you will eat and what you will drink, and do not keep worrying." 
Luke12:30 For all these things the nations of the world eagerly seek, but your Father knows that you need these things." 
Luke12:31 But seek His kingdom, and these things will be added to you." 
Luke12:32 Do not fear, little flock, for your Father is well pleased to give you the kingdom." 
Luke12:33 “Sell your possessions and give it as charity; make yourselves money belts which do not wear out, an unfailing treasure in heaven, where no thief comes near nor moth destroys." 
Luke12:34 For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also." 
Luke12:35 “Gird up your loins, and keep your lamps lit." 
Luke12:36 And be like men who are waiting for their master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that they may immediately open the door to him when he comes and knocks." 
Luke12:37 Blessed are those slaves whom the master will find awake when he comes; truly I say to you, that he will gird himself to serve, and have them recline at the table, and will come up and wait on them." 
Luke12:38 Whether he comes in the second watch, or even in the third, and finds them so, blessed are those slaves." 
Luke12:39 “But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have allowed his house to be broken into." 
Luke12:40 You too, be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not expect.”" 
Luke12:41 Now Peter said, “Lord, are You addressing this parable to us, or to everyone else as well?”" 
Luke12:42 And the Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and prudent steward, whom his master will put in charge of his servants, to give them their rations at the proper time?" 
Luke12:43 Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing when he comes. 
Luke12:44 Truly I say to you that he will put him in charge of all his possessions. 
Luke12:45 But if that slave says in his heart, ‘My master will be a long time in coming,’ and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk," 
Luke12:46 the master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces, and assign him a place with the unbelievers." 
Luke12:47 And that slave who knew his master’s will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will, will receive many beatings," 
Luke12:48 but the one who did not know it, and committed deeds worthy of a beating, will receive but a few. From everyone who has been given much, much will be required, and to whom they entrusted much, of him they will ask all the more." 
Luke12:49 “I have come to cast fire upon the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled!" 
Luke12:50 But I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am until it is finished!" 
Luke12:51 Do you think that I came to grant peace on earth? I tell you, no, but rather division;" 
Luke12:52 for from now on five members in one household will be divided, three against two and two against three." 
Luke12:53 They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.”" 
Luke12:54 And He was also saying to the crowds, “When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say, ‘A shower is coming,’ and so it happens." 
Luke12:55 And when you see a south wind blowing, you say, ‘It will be a hot day,’ and it happens." 
Luke12:56 You hypocrites! You know how to examine the appearance of the earth and the sky, but why do you not examine this present time?" 
Luke12:57 “And why do you not even judge for yourselves what is right? 
Luke12:58 For while you are going with your opponent to appear before the magistrate, on your way there make an effort to settle with him, so that he may not drag you before the judge, and the judge turn you over to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison." 
Luke12:59 I say to you, you will not get out of there until you have paid the last lepton.”" 
Luke13:1 Now at that same time there were some present who were reporting to Him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. 
Luke13:2 And Jesus answered and said to them, “Do you think that these Galileans were greater sinners than all other Galileans because they suffered these things?" 
Luke13:3 I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish." 
Luke13:4 Or do you think that those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them were worse offenders than all the men who live in Jerusalem? 
Luke13:5 I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.”" 
Luke13:6 And He was telling this parable: “A man had a fig tree which had been planted in his vineyard; and he came seeking fruit on it and did not find any. 
Luke13:7 And he said to the vineyard-keeper, ‘Behold, for three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree without finding any. Cut it down! Why does it even use up the ground?’" 
Luke13:8 And he answered and said to him, ‘Let it alone, sir, for this year too, until I dig around it and put in manure," 
Luke13:9 and if it bears fruit next year, fine, but if not, cut it down.’”" 
Luke13:10 And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. 
Luke13:11 And behold, there was a woman who for eighteen years had a sickness caused by a spirit, and she was bent double, and could not straighten up at all." 
Luke13:12 But when Jesus saw her, He called her over and said to her, “Woman, you are freed from your sickness.”" 
Luke13:13 And He laid His hands on her, and immediately she was made erect again and began glorifying God." 
Luke13:14 But the synagogue official, indignant because Jesus healed on the Sabbath, answered and was saying to the crowd, “There are six days in which work should be done; so come during them and get healed, and not on the Sabbath day.”" 
Luke13:15 But the Lord answered him and said, “You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath release his ox or his donkey from the stall and lead it away to water it?" 
Luke13:16 And this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound for—behold—eighteen years, should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day?”" 
Luke13:17 And as He said this, all His opponents were being put to shame; and the entire crowd was rejoicing over all the glorious things being done by Him." 
Luke13:18 Therefore, He was saying, “What is the kingdom of God like, and to what shall I compare it?" 
Luke13:19 It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his own garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air nested in its branches.”" 
Luke13:20 And again He said, “To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?" 
Luke13:21 It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three sata of flour until it was all leavened.”" 
Luke13:22 And He was passing through from one city and village to another, teaching, and proceeding on His way to Jerusalem." 
Luke13:23 And someone said to Him, “Lord, are there just a few who are being saved?” And He said to them," 
Luke13:24 “Strive to enter through the narrow door, for many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able." 
Luke13:25 Once the head of the house gets up and shuts the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock on the door, saying, ‘Lord, open up to us!’ then He will answer and say to you, ‘I do not know where you are from.’" 
Luke13:26 Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in Your presence, and You taught in our streets.’" 
Luke13:27 And He will say, ‘I tell you, I do not know where you are from; depart from Me, all you workers of unrighteousness.’" 
Luke13:28 In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but yourselves being cast out." 
Luke13:29 And they will come from east and west and from north and south, and will recline at the table in the kingdom of God." 
Luke13:30 And behold, some are last who will be first and some are first who will be last.”" 
Luke13:31 Just at that time some Pharisees approached, saying to Him, “Leave and go from here, for Herod wants to kill You.”" 
Luke13:32 And He said to them, “Go and tell that fox, ‘Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and on the third day I finish.’" 
Luke13:33 Nevertheless I must journey on today and tomorrow and the next day, for it is not possible that a prophet would perish outside of Jerusalem." 
Luke13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, just as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you did not want it!" 
Luke13:35 Behold, your house is left to you desolate, and I say to you, you will not see Me until the time comes when you say, ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’”" 
Luke14:1 And it happened that when He went into the house of one of the leaders of the Pharisees on the Sabbath to eat bread, they were watching Him closely." 
Luke14:2 And behold, in front of Him was a man suffering from dropsy." 
Luke14:3 And Jesus answered and spoke to the scholars of the Law and Pharisees, saying, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?”" 
Luke14:4 But they were silent. And He took hold of him, healed him, and sent him away." 
Luke14:5 And He said to them, “Which one of you will have a son or an ox fall into a well, and will not immediately pull him out on a Sabbath day?”" 
Luke14:6 And they could make no reply to this. 
Luke14:7 And He was telling a parable to the invited guests when He noticed how they were picking out the places of honor at the table, saying to them," 
Luke14:8 “When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not recline at the place of honor, lest someone more highly regarded than you be invited by him," 
Luke14:9 and he who invited you both will come and say to you, ‘Give your place to this man,’ and then in shame you proceed to occupy the last place." 
Luke14:10 But when you are invited, go and recline at the last place, so that when the one who has invited you comes, he may say to you, ‘Friend, move up higher’; then you will have honor in the sight of all who recline at the table with you." 
Luke14:11 For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.”" 
Luke14:12 And He also went on to say to the one who had invited Him, “When you give a luncheon or a dinner, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and that will be your repayment." 
Luke14:13 But when you give a reception, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind," 
Luke14:14 and you will be blessed, since they do not have the means to repay you; for it will be repaid to you at the resurrection of the righteous.”" 
Luke14:15 But when one of those who were reclining at the table with Him heard this, he said to Him, “Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God!”" 
Luke14:16 And He said to him, “A man was giving a big dinner, and he invited many." 
Luke14:17 And at the dinner hour he sent his slave to say to those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is ready now.’" 
Luke14:18 But they all alike began to make excuses. The first one said to him, ‘I have bought a piece of land and I need to go out and look at it. I ask you, consider me excused.’" 
Luke14:19 And another one said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to try them out. I ask you, consider me excused.’" 
Luke14:20 And another one said, ‘I have married a wife, and for that reason I cannot come.’" 
Luke14:21 And when the slave came back, he reported these things to his master. Then the head of the household became angry and said to his slave, ‘Go out at once into the streets and lanes of the city and bring in here the poor and crippled and blind and lame.’" 
Luke14:22 And the slave said, ‘Master, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.’" 
Luke14:23 And the master said to the slave, ‘Go out into the highways and along the fences, and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled." 
Luke14:24 For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste of my dinner.’”" 
Luke14:25 Now many crowds were going along with Him, and He turned and said to them," 
Luke14:26 “If anyone comes to Me, and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be My disciple." 
Luke14:27 Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after Me cannot be My disciple. 
Luke14:28 For which one of you, when he wants to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it?" 
Luke14:29 Lest, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who observe it begin to ridicule him," 
Luke14:30 saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to finish.’" 
Luke14:31 Or what king, when he sets out to meet another king in battle, will not first sit down and consider whether he is strong enough with ten thousand men to encounter the one coming against him with twenty thousand?" 
Luke14:32 Or else, while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace." 
Luke14:33 So then, none of you can be My disciple who does not give up all his own possessions." 
Luke14:34 “Therefore, salt is good, but if even salt has become tasteless, with what will it be seasoned?" 
Luke14:35 It is useless either for the soil or for the manure pile; it is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”" 
Luke15:1 Now all the tax collectors and the sinners were coming near Him to listen to Him. 
Luke15:2 And both the Pharisees and the scribes were grumbling, saying, “This man receives sinners and eats with them.”" 
Luke15:3 So He told them this parable, saying," 
Luke15:4 “What man among you, if he has one hundred sheep and has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open pasture and go after the one which is lost until he finds it?" 
Luke15:5 And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing." 
Luke15:6 And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost!’" 
Luke15:7 I tell you that in the same way, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance." 
Luke15:8 “Or what woman, if she has ten drachmas and loses one drachma, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it?" 
Luke15:9 And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost!’" 
Luke15:10 In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents.”" 
Luke15:11 And He said, “A man had two sons." 
Luke15:12 And the younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of the estate that falls to me.’ So he divided his wealth between them." 
Luke15:13 And not many days later, the younger son gathered everything together and went on a journey into a distant country, and there he squandered his estate living recklessly." 
Luke15:14 Now when he had spent everything, a severe famine occurred in that country, and he began to be impoverished." 
Luke15:15 So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine." 
Luke15:16 And he was desiring to be fed with the pods that the swine were eating, and no one was giving anything to him." 
Luke15:17 But when he came to himself, he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired men have more than enough bread, but I am dying here with hunger!" 
Luke15:18 I will rise up and go to my father, and will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you." 
Luke15:19 I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me as one of your hired men.”’ 
Luke15:20 So he rose up and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him." 
Luke15:21 And the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’" 
Luke15:22 But the father said to his slaves, ‘Quickly bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet," 
Luke15:23 and bring the fattened calf, slaughter it, and let us eat and celebrate," 
Luke15:24 for this son of mine was dead and has come to life again; he was lost and has been found.’ And they began to celebrate. 
Luke15:25 “Now his older son was in the field, and when he came and approached the house, he heard music and dancing." 
Luke15:26 And summoning one of the servants, he began inquiring what these things could be." 
Luke15:27 And he said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has received him back safe and sound.’" 
Luke15:28 But he became angry and was not wanting to go in, and his father came out and began pleading with him." 
Luke15:29 But he answered and said to his father, ‘Look! For so many years I have been serving you and never have I neglected a command of yours. And yet never have you given me a young goat, so that I might celebrate with my friends." 
Luke15:30 But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your wealth with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him.’" 
Luke15:31 And he said to him, ‘Child, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours." 
Luke15:32 But we had to celebrate and rejoice, for this brother of yours was dead and is alive, and was lost and has been found.’”" 
Luke16:1 Now He was also saying to the disciples, “There was a rich man who had a steward, and this steward was reported to him as squandering his possessions." 
Luke16:2 And he called for him and said to him, ‘What is this I hear about you? Give an accounting of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward.’" 
Luke16:3 And the steward said to himself, ‘What shall I do, since my master is taking the stewardship away from me? I am not strong enough to dig; I am ashamed to beg." 
Luke16:4 I know what I shall do, so that when I am removed from the stewardship people will take me into their homes.’" 
Luke16:5 And he summoned each one of his master’s debtors, and he began saying to the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’" 
Luke16:6 And he said, ‘One hundred baths of oil.’ And he said to him, ‘Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.’" 
Luke16:7 Then he said to another, ‘And how much do you owe?’ And he said, ‘One hundred kors of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and write eighty.’" 
Luke16:8 And his master praised the unrighteous steward because he had acted shrewdly, for the sons of this age are more shrewd in relation to their own kind than the sons of light." 
Luke16:9 And I say to you, make friends for yourselves from the wealth of unrighteousness, so that when it fails, they will take you into the eternal dwellings." 
Luke16:10 “He who is faithful in a very little thing is faithful also in much, and he who is unrighteous in a very little thing is unrighteous also in much." 
Luke16:11 Therefore if you have not been faithful in the use of unrighteous wealth, who will entrust the true riches to you?" 
Luke16:12 And if you have not been faithful in the use of that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own?" 
Luke16:13 No servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth.”" 
Luke16:14 Now the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, were listening to all these things and were scoffing at Him." 
Luke16:15 And He said to them, “You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is detestable in the sight of God." 
Luke16:16 “The Law and the Prophets were until John; since that time the good news of the kingdom of God is proclaimed, and everyone is forcing his way into it." 
Luke16:16 “The Law and the Prophets were until John; since that time the good news of the kingdom of God is proclaimed, and everyone is forcing his way into it." 
Luke16:17 But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of a letter of the Law to fail. 
Luke16:18 “Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman who is divorced from a husband commits adultery." 
Luke16:19 “Now there was a rich man, and he habitually dressed in purple and fine linen, joyously living in splendor every day." 
Luke16:20 But a poor man named Lazarus was laid at his gate, covered with sores," 
Luke16:21 and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which were falling from the rich man’s table; besides, even the dogs were coming and licking his sores." 
Luke16:22 Now it happened that the poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham’s bosom, and the rich man also died and was buried." 
Luke16:23 And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far away and Lazarus in his bosom." 
Luke16:24 And he cried out and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame.’" 
Luke16:25 But Abraham said, ‘Child, remember that during your life you received your good things, and likewise Lazarus bad things. But now he is being comforted here, and you are in agony." 
Luke16:26 And besides all this, between us and you there is a great chasm fixed, so that those who wish to come over from here to you are not able, and none may cross over from there to us.’" 
Luke16:27 And he said, ‘Then I am asking you, father, that you send him to my father’s house—" 
Luke16:28 for I have five brothers—in order that he may warn them, so that they will not also come to this place of torment.’" 
Luke16:29 But Abraham said, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them.’" 
Luke16:30 But he said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent!’" 
Luke16:31 But he said to him, ‘If they do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, they will not be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead.’”" 
Luke17:1 Now He said to His disciples, “It is inevitable that stumbling blocks come, but woe to him through whom they come!" 
Luke17:2 It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than that he would cause one of these little ones to stumble." 
Luke17:3 Be on your guard! If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him." 
Luke17:4 And if he sins against you seven times a day, and returns to you seven times, saying, ‘I repent,’ forgive him.”" 
Luke17:5 And the apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith!”" 
Luke17:6 And the Lord said, “If you have faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and be planted in the sea’; and it would obey you." 
Luke17:7 “But which of you, having a slave plowing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, ‘Come immediately and sit down to eat’?" 
Luke17:8 But will he not say to him, ‘Prepare something for me to eat, and, clothing yourself properly, serve me while I eat and drink; and afterward you may eat and drink’?" 
Luke17:9 Is he grateful to the slave because he did the things which were commanded? 
Luke17:10 In this way, you also, when you do all the things which are commanded of you, say, ‘We are unworthy slaves; we have done only that which we ought to have done.’”" 
Luke17:11 And it happened that while He was on the way to Jerusalem, He was passing through Samaria and Galilee." 
Luke17:12 And as He entered a village, ten leprous men who stood at a distance met Him." 
Luke17:13 And they raised their voices, saying, “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!”" 
Luke17:14 When He saw them, He said to them, “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” And it happened that as they were going, they were cleansed." 
Luke17:15 Now one of them, when he saw that he had been healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice," 
Luke17:16 and he fell on his face at His feet, giving thanks to Him. And he was a Samaritan." 
Luke17:17 Then Jesus answered and said, “Were there not ten cleansed? But the nine—where are they?" 
Luke17:18 Was there no one found who turned back to give glory to God, except this foreigner?”" 
Luke17:19 And He said to him, “Stand up and go; your faith has saved you.”" 
Luke17:20 Now having been questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, “The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed," 
Luke17:21 nor will they say, ‘Look, here!’ or, ‘There!’ For behold, the kingdom of God is in your midst.”" 
Luke17:22 And He said to the disciples, “The days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it." 
Luke17:23 And they will say to you, ‘Look there! Look here!’ Do not go away, and do not run after them." 
Luke17:24 For just like the lightning, when it flashes out of one part of the sky, shines to the other part of the sky, so will the Son of Man be in His day." 
Luke17:25 But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
Luke17:26 And just as it was in the days of Noah, so it will be also in the days of the Son of Man:" 
Luke17:27 they were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all." 
Luke17:28 It was the same as in the days of Lot—they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building;" 
Luke17:29 but on the day that Lot went out from Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. 
Luke17:30 It will be just the same on the day that the Son of Man is revealed. 
Luke17:31 On that day, the one who is on the housetop and whose goods are in the house must not go down to take them out, and likewise the one who is in the field must not turn back." 
Luke17:32 Remember Lot’s wife. 
Luke17:33 Whoever seeks to keep his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it." 
Luke17:34 I tell you, on that night there will be two in one bed; one will be taken and the other will be left." 
Luke17:35 There will be two women grinding grain at the same place; one will be taken and the other will be left. 
Luke17:36 [Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.”] 
Luke17:37 And answering they said to Him, “Where, Lord?” And He said to them, “Where the body is, there also the vultures will be gathered.”" 
Luke18:1 Now He was telling them a parable to show that at all times they ought to pray and not to lose heart," 
Luke18:2 saying, “In a certain city there was a certain judge who did not fear God and did not respect man." 
Luke18:3 Now there was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him, saying, ‘Give me justice from my opponent.’" 
Luke18:4 And for a while he was unwilling; but afterward he said to himself, ‘Even though I do not fear God nor respect man," 
Luke18:5 yet because this widow is bothering me, I will give her justice, lest by continually coming she wears me out.’”" 
Luke18:6 And the Lord said, “Hear what the unjust judge said." 
Luke18:7 Now, will God not bring about justice for His elect who cry to Him day and night, and will He delay long over them?" 
Luke18:8 I tell you that He will bring about justice for them quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, will He find that faith on the earth?”" 
Luke18:9 And He also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and viewed others with contempt:" 
Luke18:10 “Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector." 
Luke18:11 The Pharisee stood and was praying these things to himself: ‘God, I thank You that I am not like other people: swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector." 
Luke18:12 I fast twice a week; I pay tithes of all that I get.’ 
Luke18:13 But the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his chest, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, the sinner!’" 
Luke18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted.”" 
Luke18:15 And they were bringing even their babies to Him so that He would touch them, but when the disciples saw it, they were rebuking them." 
Luke18:16 But Jesus called for them, saying, “Permit the children to come to Me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these." 
Luke18:17 Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child will never enter it.”" 
Luke18:18 And a ruler questioned Him, saying, “Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?”" 
Luke18:19 And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except God alone." 
Luke18:20 You know the commandments, ‘Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother.’”" 
Luke18:21 And he said, “All these things I have kept from my youth.”" 
Luke18:22 And when Jesus heard this, He said to him, “One thing you still lack: sell all that you possess and distribute it to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven. And come, follow Me.”" 
Luke18:23 But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich." 
Luke18:24 And Jesus looked at him and said, “How hard it is for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God!" 
Luke18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Luke18:26 And those who heard it said, “Then who can be saved?”" 
Luke18:27 But He said, “The things that are impossible with people are possible with God.”" 
Luke18:28 And Peter said, “Behold, we have left all that is our own and followed You.”" 
Luke18:29 And He said to them, “Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God," 
Luke18:30 who will not receive many times more at this time and in the age to come, eternal life.”" 
Luke18:31 But when He took the twelve aside, He said to them, “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things which are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be completed." 
Luke18:32 For He will be delivered over to the Gentiles, and will be mocked and mistreated and spit upon," 
Luke18:33 and after they have flogged Him, they will kill Him, and the third day He will rise again.”" 
Luke18:34 But the disciples understood none of these things, and this statement was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend the things that were said." 
Luke18:35 Now it happened that as Jesus was approaching Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the road begging." 
Luke18:36 Now hearing a crowd going by, he began to inquire what this was." 
Luke18:37 They reported to him, “Jesus of Nazareth is passing by.”" 
Luke18:38 And he called out, saying, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Luke18:39 And those who went ahead were rebuking him so that he would be quiet, but he kept crying out all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”" 
Luke18:40 And Jesus stopped and commanded that he be brought to Him, and when he came near, He questioned him," 
Luke18:41 “What do you want Me to do for you?” And he said, “Lord, I want to regain my sight!”" 
Luke18:42 And Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight; your faith has saved you.”" 
Luke18:43 Immediately he regained his sight and began following Him, glorifying God. And when all the people saw it, they gave praise to God." 
Luke19:1 And He entered Jericho and was passing through. 
Luke19:2 And behold, there was a man called by the name of Zaccheus; he was a chief tax collector and he was rich." 
Luke19:3 And Zaccheus was trying to see who Jesus was, and was unable because of the crowd, for he was small in stature." 
Luke19:4 So he ran on before and climbed up into a sycamore tree in order to see Him, for He was about to pass through that way." 
Luke19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, He looked up and said to him, “Zaccheus, hurry and come down, for today I must stay at your house.”" 
Luke19:6 And he hurried and came down and received Him gladly. 
Luke19:7 And when they saw it, they all began to grumble, saying, “He has gone to be the guest of a man who is a sinner.”" 
Luke19:8 But Zaccheus stopped and said to the Lord, “Behold, half of my possessions, Lord, I will give to the poor, and if I have extorted anyone of anything, I will give back four times as much.”" 
Luke19:9 And Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, because he, too, is a son of Abraham." 
Luke19:10 For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save the lost.” 
Luke19:11 Now while they were listening to these things, Jesus went on to tell a parable, because He was near Jerusalem, and they thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately." 
Luke19:12 So He said, “A nobleman went to a distant country to receive a kingdom for himself, and then return." 
Luke19:13 And he called ten of his slaves, and gave them ten minas and said to them, ‘Engage in business until I come back.’" 
Luke19:14 But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We do not want this man to reign over us.’" 
Luke19:15 And it happened that when he returned, after receiving the kingdom, he ordered that these slaves, to whom he had given the money, be called to him so that he might know how much they had made in business." 
Luke19:16 So the first appeared, saying, ‘Master, your mina has made ten minas more.’" 
Luke19:17 And he said to him, ‘Well done, good slave, because you have been faithful in a very little thing, you are to be in authority over ten cities.’" 
Luke19:18 Then the second came, saying, ‘Your mina, master, has made five minas.’" 
Luke19:19 And he said to him also, ‘And you are to be over five cities.’" 
Luke19:20 Then another came, saying, ‘Master, here is your mina, which I kept put away in a cloth;" 
Luke19:21 for I was afraid of you, because you are a strict man; you take up what you did not lay down and reap what you did not sow.’" 
Luke19:22 He said to him, ‘From your own mouth I will judge you, you worthless slave. Did you know that I am a strict man, taking up what I did not lay down and reaping what I did not sow?" 
Luke19:23 Then why did you not put my money in the bank, and having come, I would have collected it with interest?’" 
Luke19:24 Then he said to the bystanders, ‘Take the mina away from him and give it to the one who has the ten minas.’" 
Luke19:25 And they said to him, ‘Master, he has ten minas already.’" 
Luke19:26 ‘I tell you that to everyone who has, more shall be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away." 
Luke19:27 But these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them in my presence.’”" 
Luke19:28 And after He had said these things, He was going on ahead, going up to Jerusalem." 
Luke19:29 And it happened that when He approached Bethphage and Bethany, near the mount called “of Olives,” He sent two of the disciples," 
Luke19:30 saying, “Go into the village ahead of you; in which, as you enter, you will find a colt tied, on which no one yet has ever sat; untie it and bring it here." 
Luke19:31 And if anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you shall say this: ‘Because the Lord has need of it.’”" 
Luke19:32 So when those who were sent departed, they found it just as He had told them." 
Luke19:33 And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying the colt?”" 
Luke19:34 And they said, “The Lord has need of it.”" 
Luke19:35 And they brought it to Jesus, and after they threw their garments on the colt, they put Jesus on it." 
Luke19:36 And as He was going, they were spreading their garments on the road." 
Luke19:37 Now as soon as He was approaching, near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to praise God, rejoicing with a loud voice for all the miracles which they had seen," 
Luke19:38 saying, “Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!”" 
Luke19:39 And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, rebuke Your disciples.”" 
Luke19:40 But Jesus answered and said, “I tell you, if these were silent, the stones will cry out!”" 
Luke19:41 And as He approached Jerusalem and saw the city, He cried over it," 
Luke19:42 saying, “If you knew in this day, even you, the things which make for peace! But now they have been hidden from your eyes." 
Luke19:43 For the days will come upon you when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you, and surround you and hem you in on every side," 
Luke19:44 and they will level you to the ground and your children within you, and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation.”" 
Luke19:45 And Jesus entered the temple and began to drive out those who were selling," 
Luke19:46 saying to them, “It is written, ‘And My house shall be a house of prayer,’ but you have made it a robbers’ den.”" 
Luke19:47 And He was teaching daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the leading men among the people were trying to destroy Him," 
Luke19:48 and they could not find anything that they might do, for all the people hung upon every word He said." 
Luke20:1 And it happened that on one of the days while He was teaching the people in the temple and proclaiming the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up to Him," 
Luke20:2 and they spoke, saying to Him, “Tell us by what authority You are doing these things, or who is the one who gave You this authority?”" 
Luke20:3 And Jesus answered and said to them, “I will also ask you a question, and you tell Me:" 
Luke20:4 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men?” 
Luke20:4 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men?” 
Luke20:5 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say, ‘Why did you not believe him?’" 
Luke20:6 But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet.”" 
Luke20:6 But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet.”" 
Luke20:7 So they answered that they did not know where it came from. 
Luke20:8 And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”" 
Luke20:9 And He began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard and rented it out to vine-growers, and went on a journey for a long time." 
Luke20:10 And at the harvest time he sent a slave to the vine-growers, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the vine-growers sent him away empty-handed having beaten him." 
Luke20:11 And he proceeded to send another slave; and when they beat him also and treated him shamefully, they sent him away empty-handed." 
Luke20:12 And he proceeded to send a third; and this one also they wounded and cast out. 
Luke20:13 Now the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.’" 
Luke20:14 But when the vine-growers saw him, they were reasoning with one another, saying, ‘This is the heir; let us kill him so that the inheritance will be ours.’" 
Luke20:15 So they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What, then, will the owner of the vineyard do to them?" 
Luke20:16 He will come and destroy these vine-growers and will give the vineyard to others.” When they heard this, they said, “May it never be!”" 
Luke20:17 But when Jesus looked at them, He said, “What then is this that is written: ‘The stone which the builders rejected, This became the chief corner stone’?" 
Luke20:18 Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, but on whomever it falls, it will scatter him like dust.”" 
Luke20:19 And the scribes and the chief priests tried to lay hands on Him that very hour, but they feared the people. For they understood that He spoke this parable against them." 
Luke20:20 So they watched Him, and sent spies who pretended to be righteous, so that they might catch Him in some statement, in order to deliver Him to the rule and the authority of the governor." 
Luke20:21 And they questioned Him, saying, “Teacher, we know that You speak and teach correctly, and You are not partial to any, but teach the way of God in truth." 
Luke20:22 Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”" 
Luke20:23 But He perceived their craftiness and said to them," 
Luke20:24 “Show Me a denarius. Whose likeness and inscription does it have?” They said, “Caesar’s.”" 
Luke20:25 And He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”" 
Luke20:26 And they were unable to catch Him in a word in the presence of the people; and marveling at His answer, they became silent." 
Luke20:27 Now some of the Sadducees (who say that there is no resurrection) came to Him," 
Luke20:28 and they questioned Him, saying, “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies, having a wife, and he is childless, his brother should marry the wife and raise up seed for his brother." 
Luke20:29 Now there were seven brothers; and the first married a wife and died childless," 
Luke20:30 and the second 
Luke20:31 and the third married her; and in the same way, all seven died, leaving no children." 
Luke20:32 Finally the woman died also. 
Luke20:33 Therefore, this woman—in the resurrection—whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as a wife.”" 
Luke20:34 And Jesus said to them, “The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage," 
Luke20:35 but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage." 
Luke20:36 For they cannot even die anymore, because they are like angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection." 
Luke20:37 But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed in the passage about the burning bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." 
Luke20:38 Now He is not the God of the dead but of the living; for all live to Him.” 
Luke20:39 And some of the scribes answered and said, “Teacher, You have spoken well.”" 
Luke20:40 For they did not dare to question Him any longer about anything. 
Luke20:41 Then He said to them, “How is it that they say the Christ is David’s son?" 
Luke20:42 For David himself says in the book of Psalms, ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand," 
Luke20:43 Until I put Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.”’ 
Luke20:44 Therefore David calls Him ‘Lord,’ so how is He his son?”" 
Luke20:45 And while all the people were listening, He said to the disciples," 
Luke20:46 “Beware of the scribes, who want to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces, and best seats in the synagogues and places of honor at banquets," 
Luke20:47 who devour widows’ houses, and for appearance’s sake offer long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation.”" 
Luke21:1 And He looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury. 
Luke21:2 And He saw a poor widow putting in two lepta. 
Luke21:3 And He said, “Truly I say to you, this poor widow put in more than all of them." 
Luke21:4 For they all put in their gifts out of their abundance; but she, out of what she lacked, put in all that she had for living.”" 
Luke21:5 And while some were talking about the temple, that it had been adorned with beautiful stones and dedicated gifts, He said," 
Luke21:6 “As for these things which you are looking at, the days will come in which there will not be left one stone upon another which will not be torn down.”" 
Luke21:7 So they questioned Him, saying, “Teacher, when therefore will these things happen? And what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?”" 
Luke21:8 And He said, “See to it that you are not deceived; for many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am He,’ and, ‘The time is at hand.’ Do not go after them." 
Luke21:9 And when you hear of wars and disturbances, do not be terrified; for these things must take place first, but the end does not follow immediately.”" 
Luke21:10 Then He continued saying to them, “Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom," 
Luke21:11 and there will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and plagues; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven." 
Luke21:12 “But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and will persecute you, delivering you to the synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for My name’s sake." 
Luke21:13 It will result in an opportunity for your testimony. 
Luke21:14 So set in your hearts not to prepare beforehand to defend yourselves; 
Luke21:15 for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which none of your opponents will be able to resist or refute. 
Luke21:16 But you will be betrayed even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death," 
Luke21:17 and you will be hated by all because of My name. 
Luke21:18 Yet not a hair of your head will perish. 
Luke21:19 By your perseverance you will gain your lives. 
Luke21:20 “But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is at hand." 
Luke21:21 Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains, and those who are in the midst of the city must leave, and those who are in the countryside must not enter the city;" 
Luke21:21 Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains, and those who are in the midst of the city must leave, and those who are in the countryside must not enter the city;" 
Luke21:22 because these are days of vengeance, so that all things which are written will be fulfilled." 
Luke21:23 Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days; for there will be great distress upon the land and wrath against this people," 
Luke21:24 and they will fall by the edge of the sword, and will be led captive into all the nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled under foot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled." 
Luke21:25 “And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth anguish among nations, in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the waves," 
Luke21:26 men fainting from fear and the expectation of the things which are coming upon the world; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
Luke21:27 And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 
Luke21:28 But when these things begin to take place, straighten up and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.”" 
Luke21:29 Then He told them a parable: “Behold the fig tree and all the trees; 
Luke21:30 as soon as they put forth leaves and you see it for yourselves, know that summer is now near." 
Luke21:31 So you also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near." 
Luke21:32 Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all things take place." 
Luke21:33 Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will never pass away." 
Luke21:34 “But be on guard, so that your hearts will not be overcome with dissipation and drunkenness and the worries of life, and that day will not come on you suddenly like a trap;" 
Luke21:35 for it will come upon all those who inhabit the face of all the earth. 
Luke21:36 But keep on the alert at all times, praying earnestly that you may have strength to escape all these things that are about to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.”" 
Luke21:37 Now during the day He was teaching in the temple, but during the night He would go out and spend it on the mount called “of Olives.”" 
Luke21:38 And all the people would get up early in the morning to come to Him in the temple to listen to Him. 
Luke22:1 Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, was drawing near." 
Luke22:2 And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might put Him to death; for they were afraid of the people. 
Luke22:3 And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot, who belonged to the number of the twelve." 
Luke22:4 And he went away and discussed with the chief priests and officers how he might betray Him to them. 
Luke22:5 And they were glad and agreed to give him money. 
Luke22:6 So he consented, and began seeking a good opportunity to betray Him to them apart from the crowd." 
Luke22:7 Then came the first day of Unleavened Bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. 
Luke22:8 And Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat it.”" 
Luke22:8 And Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat it.”" 
Luke22:9 And they said to Him, “Where do You want us to prepare it?”" 
Luke22:10 And He said to them, “Behold, after you have entered the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water; follow him into the house that he enters." 
Luke22:11 And you shall say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you, “Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with My disciples?”’" 
Luke22:12 And he will show you a large, furnished upper room; prepare it there.”" 
Luke22:13 And they left and found everything just as He had told them; and they prepared the Passover. 
Luke22:14 And when the hour had come, He reclined at the table, and the apostles with Him." 
Luke22:15 And He said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer;" 
Luke22:16 for I say to you, I shall never again eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.”" 
Luke22:17 And when He had taken a cup and given thanks, He said, “Take this and share it among yourselves." 
Luke22:18 For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine from now on until the kingdom of God comes.”" 
Luke22:19 And when He had taken some bread and given thanks, He broke it and gave it to them, saying, “This is My body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of Me.”" 
Luke22:20 And in the same way He took the cup after they had eaten, saying, “This cup which is poured out for you is the new covenant in My blood." 
Luke22:21 But behold, the hand of the one betraying Me is with Me on the table." 
Luke22:22 For indeed, the Son of Man is going as it has been determined; but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!”" 
Luke22:23 And they began to argue among themselves which one of them it might be who was going to do this thing. 
Luke22:24 And there arose also a dispute among them as to which one of them was regarded to be greatest. 
Luke22:25 And He said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who have authority over them are called ‘Benefactors.’" 
Luke22:26 But not so with you; rather the one who is the greatest among you must become like the youngest, and the leader like the servant." 
Luke22:27 For who is greater, the one who reclines at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines? But I am among you as the one who serves." 
Luke22:28 “Now you are those who have stood by Me in My trials," 
Luke22:29 and I grant you a kingdom, just as My Father granted one to Me," 
Luke22:30 that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel." 
Luke22:31 “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to sift all of you like wheat." 
Luke22:32 But I have prayed earnestly for you, that your faith may not fail; and you, once you have returned, strengthen your brothers.”" 
Luke22:33 But he said to Him, “Lord, with You I am ready to go both to prison and to death!”" 
Luke22:34 And He said, “I say to you, Peter, the rooster will not crow today until you have denied three times that you know Me.”" 
Luke22:35 And He said to them, “When I sent you out without money belt and bag and sandals, did you lack anything?” They said, “Not a thing.”" 
Luke22:36 And He said to them, “But now, whoever has a money belt is to take it along, likewise also a bag, and whoever has no sword should sell his garment and buy one." 
Luke22:37 For I tell you that this which is written must be completed in Me, ‘And He was numbered with transgressors’; for that which refers to Me has its completion.”" 
Luke22:38 And they said, “Lord, look, here are two swords.” And He said to them, “It is enough.”" 
Luke22:39 And He came out and went as was His custom to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed Him. 
Luke22:40 Now when He arrived at the place, He said to them, “Pray that you may not enter into temptation.”" 
Luke22:41 And He withdrew from them about a stone’s throw, and He knelt down and began to pray," 
Luke22:42 saying, “Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from Me, yet not My will, but Yours be done.”" 
Luke22:43 Now an angel from heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him." 
Luke22:44 And being in agony He was praying very fervently, and His sweat became like drops of blood, falling down upon the ground." 
Luke22:45 And when He rose from prayer, He came to the disciples and found them sleeping from sorrow," 
Luke22:46 and said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Rise up and pray that you may not enter into temptation.”" 
Luke22:47 While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came, and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, was coming ahead of them, and he approached Jesus to kiss Him." 
Luke22:48 But Jesus said to him, “Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?”" 
Luke22:49 And when those around Him saw what was going to happen, they said, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?”" 
Luke22:50 And one of them struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear. 
Luke22:51 But Jesus answered and said, “Stop! No more of this.” And He touched his ear and healed him." 
Luke22:52 Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders who had come against Him, “Have you come out with swords and clubs as against a robber?" 
Luke22:53 While I was with you daily in the temple, you did not stretch out your hands against Me, but this hour and the authority of darkness are yours.”" 
Luke22:54 Now having arrested Him, they led Him away and brought Him to the house of the high priest, but Peter was following at a distance." 
Luke22:55 And after they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter was sitting among them." 
Luke22:56 And a servant-girl, seeing him as he sat in the firelight and looking intently at him, said, “This man was with Him too.”" 
Luke22:57 But he denied it, saying, “Woman, I do not know Him.”" 
Luke22:58 A little later, another saw him and said, “You are one of them too!” But Peter said, “Man, I am not!”" 
Luke22:59 And after about an hour had passed, another man began to insist, saying, “Certainly this man was with Him too, for he also is a Galilean.”" 
Luke22:60 But Peter said, “Man, I do not know what you are talking about.” Immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed." 
Luke22:61 And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had told him, “Before a rooster crows today, you will deny Me three times.”" 
Luke22:62 And he went out and cried bitterly. 
Luke22:63 Now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking Him while they beat Him," 
Luke22:64 and they blindfolded Him and were asking Him, saying, “Prophesy, who is the one who hit You?”" 
Luke22:65 And they were saying many other things against Him, blaspheming." 
Luke22:66 And as the day came, the Council of elders of the people assembled, both chief priests and scribes, and they led Him away to their Sanhedrin, saying," 
Luke22:67 “If You are the Christ, tell us.” But He said to them, “If I tell you, you will not believe," 
Luke22:68 and if I ask a question, you will not answer." 
Luke22:69 But from now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.” 
Luke22:70 And they all said, “Are You the Son of God, then?” And He said to them, “You yourselves say that I am.”" 
Luke22:71 Then they said, “What further need do we have of testimony? For we have heard it ourselves from His own mouth.”" 
Luke23:1 Then their whole assembly rose up and brought Him before Pilate. 
Luke23:2 And they began to accuse Him, saying, “We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, and saying that He Himself is Christ, a King.”" 
Luke23:3 So Pilate asked Him, saying, “Are You the King of the Jews?” And He answered him and said, “You yourself say it.”" 
Luke23:4 Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, “I find no guilt in this man.”" 
Luke23:5 But they kept on insisting, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching all over Judea, starting from Galilee even as far as this place.”" 
Luke23:5 But they kept on insisting, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching all over Judea, starting from Galilee even as far as this place.”" 
Luke23:6 Now when Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean." 
Luke23:7 And when he learned that He belonged to Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who himself also was in Jerusalem in those days." 
Luke23:8 Now when Herod saw Jesus, he rejoiced greatly; for he had wanted to see Him for a long time, because he had been hearing about Him and was hoping to see some sign performed by Him." 
Luke23:9 And he questioned Him at some length, but He answered him nothing." 
Luke23:10 And the chief priests and the scribes were standing there, vehemently accusing Him." 
Luke23:11 And Herod with his soldiers, after treating Him with contempt and mocking Him, dressed Him in a bright robe and sent Him back to Pilate." 
Luke23:12 Now Herod and Pilate became friends with one another that very day; for before they had been at enmity with each other. 
Luke23:13 And Pilate summoned the chief priests and the rulers and the people," 
Luke23:14 and said to them, “You brought this man to me as one who incites the people to rebellion, and behold, having examined Him before you, I have found in this man no guilt of what you are accusing Him." 
Luke23:15 No, nor has Herod, for he sent Him back to us; and behold, nothing deserving death has been done by Him." 
Luke23:16 Therefore I will punish Him and release Him.” 
Luke23:17 [Now he was obliged to release to them at the feast one prisoner.] 
Luke23:18 But they cried out all together, saying, “Away with this man, and release for us Barabbas!”" 
Luke23:19 (He had been thrown into prison for an insurrection made in the city and for murder.) 
Luke23:20 But again Pilate addressed them, wanting to release Jesus," 
Luke23:21 but they kept on calling out, saying, “Crucify, crucify Him!”" 
Luke23:22 And he said to them a third time, “Why, what evil has this man done? I have found in Him no guilt worthy of death; therefore I will punish Him and release Him.”" 
Luke23:23 But they were insistent, with loud voices asking that He be crucified. And their voices were prevailing." 
Luke23:24 And Pilate pronounced sentence that their demand be granted. 
Luke23:25 And he released the man they were asking for who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, but he delivered Jesus to their will." 
Luke23:26 And when they led Him away, they took hold of a man, Simon of Cyrene, coming in from the country, and placed on him the cross to carry behind Jesus." 
Luke23:27 And following Him was a large multitude of the people, and of women who were mourning and lamenting Him." 
Luke23:28 But Jesus, turning to them, said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, stop crying for Me, but cry for yourselves and for your children." 
Luke23:29 For behold, the days are coming when they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.’" 
Luke23:30 Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.’" 
Luke23:31 For if they do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?”" 
Luke23:32 Now two others also, who were criminals, were being led away to be put to death with Him." 
Luke23:33 And when they came to the place called The Skull, there they crucified Him and the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left." 
Luke23:34 But Jesus was saying, “Father, forgive them; for they do not know what they are doing.” And they cast lots, dividing up His garments among themselves." 
Luke23:35 And the people stood by, looking on. And even the rulers were scoffing at Him, saying, “He saved others; let Him save Himself if this is the Christ of God, His Chosen One.”" 
Luke23:36 And the soldiers also mocked Him, coming up to Him, offering Him sour wine," 
Luke23:37 and saying, “If You are the King of the Jews, save Yourself!”" 
Luke23:38 Now there was also an inscription above Him, “THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.”" 
Luke23:39 And one of the criminals hanging there was blaspheming Him, saying, “Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!”" 
Luke23:40 But the other answered, and rebuking him said, “Do you not even fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?" 
Luke23:41 And we indeed are suffering justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for what we have done; but this man has done nothing wrong.”" 
Luke23:42 And he was saying, “Jesus, remember me when You come in Your kingdom!”" 
Luke23:43 And He said to him, “Truly I say to you, today you shall be with Me in Paradise.”" 
Luke23:44 And it was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour," 
Luke23:45 because the sun was obscured. And the veil of the sanctuary was torn in two. 
Luke23:46 And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said, “Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit.” Having said this, He breathed His last." 
Luke23:47 Now when the centurion saw what had happened, he began praising God, saying, “Certainly this man was righteous.”" 
Luke23:48 And all the crowds who came together for this spectacle, when they observed what had happened, were returning, beating their chests." 
Luke23:49 And all His acquaintances and the women who accompanied Him from Galilee were standing at a distance, watching these things." 
Luke23:50 And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a Council member, a good and righteous man" 
Luke23:51 (he had not consented to their counsel and action), a man from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who was waiting for the kingdom of God;" 
Luke23:52 this man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. 
Luke23:53 And he took it down and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid Him in a tomb cut into the rock, where no one had ever lain." 
Luke23:54 It was Preparation day, and the Sabbath was about to begin." 
Luke23:55 Now the women, who had come with Him from Galilee, followed and beheld the tomb and how His body was laid." 
Luke23:56 Then after they returned, they prepared spices and perfumes. And on the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment." 
Luke24:1 Now on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared." 
Luke24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb," 
Luke24:3 but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus." 
Luke24:4 And it happened that while they were perplexed about this, behold, two men suddenly stood near them in dazzling clothing," 
Luke24:5 and when the women were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, “Why do you seek the living One among the dead?" 
Luke24:6 He is not here, but He has risen. Remember how He spoke to you while He was still in Galilee," 
Luke24:7 saying that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.”" 
Luke24:8 And they remembered His words," 
Luke24:9 and when they returned from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest." 
Luke24:10 Now Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the rest of the women with them were there; they were telling these things to the apostles. 
Luke24:10 Now Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the rest of the women with them were there; they were telling these things to the apostles. 
Luke24:11 But these words appeared to them as nonsense, and they were not believing them." 
Luke24:12 But Peter stood up and ran to the tomb; and stooping to look in, he saw the linen wrappings only. And he went away by himself, marveling at what had happened." 
Luke24:13 And behold, two of them were going that same day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia from Jerusalem." 
Luke24:14 And they were conversing with each other about all these things which had happened. 
Luke24:15 And it happened that while they were conversing and debating, Jesus Himself approached and was going with them." 
Luke24:16 But their eyes were prevented from recognizing Him. 
Luke24:17 And He said to them, “What are these words that you are discussing with one another as you are walking?” And they stood still, looking sad." 
Luke24:18 And one of them, named Cleopas, answered and said to Him, “Are You the only one visiting Jerusalem and unaware of the things which have happened here in these days?”" 
Luke24:19 And He said to them, “What things?” And they said to Him, “The things about Jesus the Nazarene, who was a mighty prophet in deed and word in the sight of God and all the people," 
Luke24:20 and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him to the sentence of death, and crucified Him." 
Luke24:21 But we were hoping that it was He who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, it is the third day since these things happened." 
Luke24:22 But also some women among us astounded us. When they were at the tomb early in the morning," 
Luke24:23 and not finding His body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said that He was alive." 
Luke24:24 Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just exactly as the women also said, but Him they did not see.”" 
Luke24:25 And He said to them, “O foolish ones and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!" 
Luke24:26 Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into His glory?” 
Luke24:27 Then beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, He interpreted to them the things concerning Himself in all the Scriptures." 
Luke24:28 And they approached the village where they were going, and He acted as though He were going farther." 
Luke24:29 But they urged Him strongly, saying, “Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now nearly over.” So He went in to stay with them." 
Luke24:30 And it happened that when He had reclined at the table with them, He took the bread and blessed it, and after breaking it, He was giving it to them." 
Luke24:31 Then their eyes were opened and they recognized Him. And He vanished from their sight. 
Luke24:32 And they said to one another, “Were not our hearts burning within us while He was speaking to us on the road, while He was opening the Scriptures to us?”" 
Luke24:33 And they stood up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found gathered together the eleven and those with them," 
Luke24:34 who were saying, “The Lord has really risen and has appeared to Simon.”" 
Luke24:35 And they were relating their experiences on the road and how He was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread. 
Luke24:36 Now while they were telling these things, He Himself stood in their midst and said to them, “Peace to you.”" 
Luke24:37 But being startled and frightened, they were thinking that they were seeing a spirit." 
Luke24:38 And He said to them, “Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?" 
Luke24:39 See My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself; touch Me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.”" 
Luke24:40 And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His feet." 
Luke24:41 And while they still were not believing because of their joy and were still marveling, He said to them, “Have you anything here to eat?”" 
Luke24:42 They gave Him a piece of a broiled fish," 
Luke24:43 and He took it and ate it before them. 
Luke24:44 Now He said to them, “These are My words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things which are written about Me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled.”" 
Luke24:45 Then He opened their minds to understand the Scriptures," 
Luke24:46 and He said to them, “Thus it is written, that the Christ would suffer and rise again from the dead the third day," 
Luke24:47 and that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in His name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem." 
Luke24:48 You are witnesses of these things. 
Luke24:49 And behold, I am sending the promise of My Father upon you, but you are to stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high.”" 
Luke24:50 And He led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up His hands, He blessed them." 
Luke24:51 And it happened that while He was blessing them, He parted from them and was carried up into heaven." 
Luke24:52 And they, after worshiping Him, returned to Jerusalem with great joy," 
Luke24:53 and were continually in the temple blessing God. 
John1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." 
John1:2 He was in the beginning with God. 
John1:3 All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being." 
John1:4 In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men." 
John1:5 And the Light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overtake it." 
John1:6 There was a man having been sent from God, whose name was John." 
John1:7 He came as a witness, to bear witness about the Light, so that all might believe through him." 
John1:8 He was not the Light, but he came to bear witness about the Light." 
John1:9 There was the true Light which, coming into the world, enlightens everyone." 
John1:10 He was in the world, and the world was made through Him, and the world did not know Him." 
John1:11 He came to what was His own, and those who were His own did not receive Him." 
John1:12 But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in His name," 
John1:13 who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God." 
John1:14 And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth." 
John1:15 John bore witness about Him and cried out, saying, “This was He of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me has been ahead of me, for He existed before me.’”" 
John1:16 For of His fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace." 
John1:17 For the Law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 
John1:18 No one has seen God at any time; the only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, He has explained Him." 
John1:19 And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are you?”" 
John1:20 And he confessed and did not deny, but confessed, “I am not the Christ.”" 
John1:21 And they asked him, “What then? Are you Elijah?” And he said, “I am not.” “Are you the Prophet?” And he answered, “No.”" 
John1:22 Therefore, they said to him, “Who are you, so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?”" 
John1:23 He said, “I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’ as Isaiah the prophet said.”" 
John1:24 Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. 
John1:25 And they asked him, and said to him, “Why then are you baptizing, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?”" 
John1:26 John answered them, saying, “I baptize with water, but among you stands One whom you do not know." 
John1:27 This One is He who comes after me, of whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of His sandal.”" 
John1:28 These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing." 
John1:29 On the next day, he saw Jesus coming to him and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!" 
John1:30 This is He of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who has been ahead of me, for He existed before me.’" 
John1:31 I did not know Him, but so that He might be manifested to Israel, I came baptizing with water.”" 
John1:32 And John bore witness saying, “I have beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and He abided on Him." 
John1:33 And I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize with water said to me, ‘The One upon whom you see the Spirit descending and abiding on Him, this is the One who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.’" 
John1:34 And I myself have seen, and have borne witness that this is the Son of God.”" 
John1:35 On the next day, John again was standing with two of his disciples," 
John1:36 and he looked at Jesus as He walked, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God!”" 
John1:37 And the two disciples heard him speak and followed Jesus. 
John1:38 And when Jesus turned and noticed them following, He said to them, “What do you seek?” They said to Him, “Rabbi (which translated means Teacher), where are You staying?”" 
John1:39 He said to them, “Come, and you will see.” So they came and saw where He was staying; and they stayed with Him that day. It was about the tenth hour." 
John1:40 One of the two who heard John speak and followed Him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother." 
John1:41 He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, “We have found the Messiah” (which translated means Christ)." 
John1:42 He brought him to Jesus. When Jesus looked at him, He said, “You are Simon the son of John; you shall be called Cephas” (which is translated Peter)." 
John1:43 On the next day, He desired to go into Galilee, and He found Philip. And Jesus said to him, “Follow Me.”" 
John1:44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter." 
John1:45 Philip found Nathanael and said to him, “We have found Him of whom Moses in the Law and also the Prophets wrote—Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”" 
John1:46 And Nathanael said to him, “Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “Come and see.”" 
John1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him, and said about him, “Behold, truly an Israelite in whom there is no deceit!”" 
John1:48 Nathanael said to Him, “From where do You know me?” Jesus answered and said to him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.”" 
John1:49 Nathanael answered Him, “Rabbi, You are the Son of God; You are the King of Israel.”" 
John1:50 Jesus answered and said to him, “Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these.”" 
John1:51 And He said to him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see the heavens opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.”" 
John2:1 And on the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there;" 
John2:2 and both Jesus and His disciples were invited to the wedding. 
John2:3 And when the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, “They have no wine.”" 
John2:4 And Jesus said to her, “Woman, what do I have to do with you? My hour has not yet come.”" 
John2:5 His mother said to the servants, “Whatever He says to you, do it.”" 
John2:6 Now there were six stone water jars set there for the Jewish custom of purification, containing two or three measures each." 
John2:7 Jesus said to them, “Fill the water jars with water.” So they filled them up to the brim." 
John2:8 And He said to them, “Draw some out now and take it to the headwaiter.” So they took it to him." 
John2:9 Now when the headwaiter tasted the water which had become wine, and did not know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the headwaiter called the bridegroom," 
John2:10 and said to him, “Every man serves the good wine first, and when the people have drunk freely, then the inferior wine; but you have kept the good wine until now.”" 
John2:11 Jesus did this in Cana of Galilee as the beginning of His signs, and manifested His glory, and His disciples believed in Him." 
John2:12 After this He went down to Capernaum, He and His mother and His brothers and His disciples; and they stayed there a few days." 
John2:13 And the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem." 
John2:14 And He found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the money changers seated at their tables." 
John2:15 And He made a scourge of cords, and drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen; and He poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables;" 
John2:16 and to those who were selling the doves He said, “Take these things away; stop making My Father’s house a place of business.”" 
John2:17 His disciples remembered that it was written, “Zeal for Your house will consume me.”" 
John2:18 The Jews then said to Him, “What sign do You show us as your authority for doing these things?”" 
John2:19 Jesus answered them, “Destroy this sanctuary, and in three days I will raise it up.”" 
John2:20 The Jews then said, “It took forty-six years to build this sanctuary, and will You raise it up in three days?”" 
John2:21 But He was speaking about the sanctuary of His body. 
John2:22 So when He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He said this; and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken." 
John2:23 Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed in His name, when they saw His signs which He was doing." 
John2:24 But Jesus, on His part, was not entrusting Himself to them, for He knew all men," 
John2:25 and because He had no need that anyone bear witness concerning man, for He Himself knew what was in man." 
John3:1 Now there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews;" 
John3:2 this man came to Jesus by night and said to Him, “Rabbi, we know that You have come from God as a teacher; for no one can do these signs that You do unless God is with him.”" 
John3:3 Jesus answered and said to him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.”" 
John3:4 Nicodemus said to Him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born?”" 
John3:5 Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 
John3:6 That which has been born of the flesh is flesh, and that which has been born of the Spirit is spirit." 
John3:7 Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’" 
John3:8 The wind blows where it wishes and you hear its sound, but do not know where it comes from and where it is going; so is everyone who has been born of the Spirit.”" 
John3:9 Nicodemus answered and said to Him, “How can these things be?”" 
John3:10 Jesus answered and said to him, “Are you the teacher of Israel and do not understand these things?" 
John3:11 Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness of what we have seen, and you do not accept our witness." 
John3:12 If I told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?" 
John3:13 And no one has ascended into heaven, but He who descended from heaven, the Son of Man." 
John3:14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up;" 
John3:15 so that whoever believes will in Him have eternal life. 
John3:16 “For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish, but have eternal life." 
John3:17 For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world might be saved through Him." 
John3:18 He who believes in Him is not judged; he who does not believe has been judged already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God." 
John3:19 And this is the judgment, that the Light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the Light, for their deeds were evil." 
John3:20 For everyone who does evil hates the Light, and does not come to the Light lest his deeds be exposed." 
John3:21 But he who practices the truth comes to the Light, so that his deeds may be manifested as having been done by God.”" 
John3:22 After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He was spending time with them and baptizing." 
John3:22 After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He was spending time with them and baptizing." 
John3:23 And John also was baptizing in Aenon near Salim, because there was much water there; and people were coming and were being baptized—" 
John3:24 for John had not yet been thrown into prison. 
John3:25 Therefore there arose a debate between John’s disciples and a Jew about purification. 
John3:26 And they came to John and said to him, “Rabbi, He who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have borne witness, behold, He is baptizing and all are coming to Him.”" 
John3:27 John answered and said, “A man can receive nothing unless it has been given him from heaven." 
John3:28 You yourselves are my witnesses that I said, ‘I am not the Christ,’ but, ‘I have been sent ahead of Him.’" 
John3:29 He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice. So this joy of mine has been made full." 
John3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease." 
John3:31 “He who comes from above is above all, he who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all." 
John3:32 What He has seen and heard, of that He bears witness; and no one receives His witness." 
John3:33 He who has received His witness has set his seal to this, that God is true." 
John3:34 For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God; for He gives the Spirit without measure. 
John3:35 The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. 
John3:36 He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.”" 
John4:1 Therefore when Jesus knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John 
John4:2 (although Jesus Himself was not baptizing, but His disciples were)," 
John4:3 He left Judea and went away again into Galilee. 
John4:3 He left Judea and went away again into Galilee. 
John4:4 And He had to pass through Samaria. 
John4:5 So He came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the field that Jacob gave to his son Joseph;" 
John4:6 and Jacob’s well was there. So Jesus, being wearied from His journey, was sitting thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour." 
John4:7 A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give Me a drink.”" 
John4:8 For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. 
John4:9 Therefore the Samaritan woman said to Him, “How do You, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, being a Samaritan woman?” (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)" 
John4:10 Jesus answered and said to her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘Give Me a drink,’ you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water.”" 
John4:11 She said to Him, “Sir, You have nothing to draw with and the well is deep. Where then do You get that living water?" 
John4:12 Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us this well, and drank of it himself and his sons and his cattle?”" 
John4:13 Jesus answered and said to her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again;" 
John4:14 but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never thirst—ever; but the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life.” 
John4:15 The woman said to Him, “Sir, give me this water, so I will not be thirsty nor come back here to draw.”" 
John4:16 He said to her, “Go, call your husband and come back here.”" 
John4:17 The woman answered and said, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You have correctly said, ‘I have no husband’;" 
John4:18 for you had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; this you have said truly.”" 
John4:19 The woman said to Him, “Sir, I see that You are a prophet." 
John4:20 Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you people say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.”" 
John4:21 Jesus said to her, “Woman, believe Me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father." 
John4:22 You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews." 
John4:23 But an hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth; for such people the Father seeks to be His worshipers." 
John4:24 God is spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.”" 
John4:25 The woman said to Him, “I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Christ); when He comes, He will declare all things to us.”" 
John4:26 Jesus said to her, “I who speak to you am He.”" 
John4:27 And at this point His disciples came, and they were marveling that He was speaking with a woman, yet no one said, “What do You seek?” or, “Why are You speaking with her?”" 
John4:28 So the woman left her water jar, and went into the city and said to the men," 
John4:29 “Come, see a man who told me all the things that I have done; is this not the Christ?”" 
John4:30 They went out of the city, and were coming to Him." 
John4:31 Meanwhile the disciples were urging Him, saying, “Rabbi, eat.”" 
John4:32 But He said to them, “I have food to eat that you do not know about.”" 
John4:33 So the disciples were saying to one another, “Has anyone brought Him anything to eat?”" 
John4:34 Jesus said to them, “My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to finish His work." 
John4:35 Do you not say, ‘There are yet four months, and then comes the harvest’? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, that they are white for harvest." 
John4:36 Even now he who reaps is receiving wages and is gathering fruit for life eternal; so that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. 
John4:37 For in this case the saying is true, ‘One sows and another reaps.’" 
John4:38 I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored and you have entered into their labor.” 
John4:39 From that city many of the Samaritans believed in Him because of the word of the woman who bore witness, “He told me all the things that I have done.”" 
John4:40 So when the Samaritans came to Jesus, they were asking Him to stay with them; and He stayed there two days." 
John4:41 And many more believed because of His word; 
John4:42 and they were saying to the woman, “It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this One is truly the Savior of the world.”" 
John4:43 And after the two days He went from there into Galilee. 
John4:44 For Jesus Himself bore witness that a prophet has no honor in his own country. 
John4:45 So when He came to Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all the things that He did in Jerusalem at the feast; for they themselves also went to the feast." 
John4:46 Then He came again to Cana of Galilee where He had made the water wine. And there was a royal official whose son was sick at Capernaum. 
John4:47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and was asking Him to come down and heal his son; for he was about to die." 
John4:47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and was asking Him to come down and heal his son; for he was about to die." 
John4:48 So Jesus said to him, “Unless you people see signs and wonders, you will never believe.”" 
John4:49 The royal official said to Him, “Sir, come down before my child dies.”" 
John4:50 Jesus said to him, “Go; your son lives.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and started on his way." 
John4:51 And while he was still going down, his slaves met him, saying that his son was alive." 
John4:52 So he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better. Then they said to him, “Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.”" 
John4:53 So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said to him, “Your son lives”; and he himself believed and his whole household." 
John4:54 This is again a second sign that Jesus did when He had come out of Judea into Galilee. 
John4:54 This is again a second sign that Jesus did when He had come out of Judea into Galilee. 
John5:1 After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem." 
John5:2 Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porticoes." 
John5:3 In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered, [waiting for the moving of the waters;" 
John5:4 for an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred up the water; whoever then first, after the stirring up of the water, stepped in was made well from whatever sickness with which he was afflicted.]" 
John5:5 And a man was there who had been sick for thirty-eight years. 
John5:6 When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been sick a long time, He said to him, “Do you wish to get well?”" 
John5:7 The sick man answered Him, “Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I am coming, another steps down before me.”" 
John5:8 Jesus said to him, “Get up, pick up your mat and walk.”" 
John5:9 And immediately the man became well, and picked up his mat and began to walk. Now it was the Sabbath on that day." 
John5:10 So the Jews were saying to the man who had been healed, “It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to carry your mat.”" 
John5:11 But he answered them, “He who made me well was the one who said to me, ‘Pick up your mat and walk.’”" 
John5:12 They asked him, “Who is the man who said to you, ‘Pick up your mat and walk’?”" 
John5:13 But the man who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away while there was a crowd in that place." 
John5:14 Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, “Behold, you have become well; do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse happens to you.”" 
John5:15 The man went away, and disclosed to the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well." 
John5:16 And for this reason the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because He was doing these things on the Sabbath." 
John5:17 But He answered them, “My Father is working until now, and I Myself am working.”" 
John5:18 For this reason therefore the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Him, because He not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God His own Father, making Himself equal with God." 
John5:19 Therefore Jesus answered and was saying to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing from Himself, unless it is something He sees the Father doing; for whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in the same manner." 
John5:20 For the Father loves the Son, and shows Him all things that He Himself is doing; and the Father will show Him greater works than these, so that you will marvel." 
John5:21 For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom He wishes." 
John5:22 For not even the Father judges anyone, but He has given all judgment to the Son," 
John5:23 so that all will honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him. 
John5:24 “Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears My word, and believes Him who sent Me, has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life." 
John5:25 Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live." 
John5:26 For just as the Father has life in Himself, even so He gave to the Son also to have life in Himself;" 
John5:27 and He gave Him authority to execute judgment, because He is the Son of Man." 
John5:28 Do not marvel at this; for an hour is coming, in which all who are in the tombs will hear His voice," 
John5:29 and will come forth; those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment." 
John5:30 “I can do nothing from Myself. As I hear, I judge; and My judgment is righteous, because I do not seek My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me." 
John5:31 “If I alone bear witness about Myself, My witness is not true." 
John5:32 There is another who bears witness about Me, and I know that the witness which He gives about Me is true." 
John5:33 You have sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth." 
John5:34 But the witness I receive is not from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved." 
John5:35 He was the lamp that was burning and shining and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. 
John5:36 But the witness I have is greater than the witness of John; for the works which the Father has given Me to finish—the very works that I do—bear witness about Me, that the Father has sent Me." 
John5:37 And the Father who sent Me, He has borne witness about Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time nor seen His form." 
John5:38 And you do not have His word abiding in you, for you do not believe Him whom He sent." 
John5:39 You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; it is these that bear witness about Me; 
John5:40 and you are unwilling to come to Me so that you may have life. 
John5:41 I do not receive glory from men; 
John5:42 but I know you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves." 
John5:43 I have come in My Father’s name, and you do not receive Me; if another comes in his own name, you will receive him." 
John5:44 How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another and you do not seek the glory that is from the only God?" 
John5:45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; the one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope." 
John5:46 For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me, for he wrote about Me." 
John5:47 But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?”" 
John6:1 After these things Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee (or Tiberias). 
John6:2 Now a large crowd was following Him, because they were seeing the signs which He was doing on those who were sick." 
John6:3 Then Jesus went up on the mountain, and there He was sitting down with His disciples." 
John6:4 Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near." 
John6:5 Therefore Jesus, lifting up His eyes and seeing that a large crowd was coming to Him, said to Philip, “Where should we buy bread, so that these people may eat?”" 
John6:6 And this He was saying to test him, for He Himself knew what He was going to do." 
John6:7 Philip answered Him, “Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, for everyone to receive a little.”" 
John6:8 One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to Him," 
John6:9 “There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are these for so many people?”" 
John6:10 Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.” Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand." 
John6:11 Jesus then took the loaves, and having given thanks, He distributed them to those who were seated; likewise also of the fish, as much as they wanted." 
John6:12 And when they were filled, He said to His disciples, “Gather up the leftover pieces so that nothing will be lost.”" 
John6:13 So they gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets with pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten." 
John6:14 Therefore when the people saw the sign which He had done, they were saying, “This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world.”" 
John6:15 So Jesus, knowing that they were going to come and take Him by force to make Him king, withdrew again to the mountain by Himself alone." 
John6:16 Now when evening came, His disciples went down to the sea," 
John6:17 and after getting into a boat, they began to cross the sea to Capernaum. It had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them." 
John6:18 And the sea was stirred up because a strong wind was blowing. 
John6:19 Then, when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and drawing near to the boat; and they were frightened." 
John6:20 But He said to them, “It is I; do not be afraid.”" 
John6:21 So they were willing to receive Him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going." 
John6:22 On the next day, the crowd which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other small boat there, except one, and that Jesus had not entered with His disciples into the boat, but that His disciples had gone away alone." 
John6:23 Other small boats came from Tiberias near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. 
John6:24 So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor His disciples, they themselves got into the small boats, and came to Capernaum seeking Jesus." 
John6:25 And when they found Him on the other side of the sea, they said to Him, “Rabbi, when did You come here?”" 
John6:26 Jesus answered them and said, “Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek Me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled." 
John6:27 Do not work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you, for on Him the Father, God, set His seal.”" 
John6:28 Therefore they said to Him, “What should we do, so that we may work the works of God?”" 
John6:29 Jesus answered and said to them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He has sent.”" 
John6:30 So they said to Him, “What then do You do for a sign so that we may see, and believe You? What work do You perform?" 
John6:31 Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’”" 
John6:32 Jesus then said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread from heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread from heaven." 
John6:33 For the bread of God is that which comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” 
John6:34 Then they said to Him, “Lord, always give us this bread.”" 
John6:35 Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me will never hunger, and he who believes in Me will never thirst." 
John6:36 But I said to you that you have seen Me, and yet do not believe." 
John6:37 All that the Father gives Me will come to Me, and the one who comes to Me I will never cast out." 
John6:38 For I have come down from heaven, not to do My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me." 
John6:39 Now this is the will of Him who sent Me, that of all that He has given Me I lose nothing, but raise it up on the last day." 
John6:40 For this is the will of My Father, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him will have eternal life, and I Myself will raise him up on the last day.”" 
John6:41 Therefore the Jews were grumbling about Him, because He said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.”" 
John6:42 They were saying, “Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does He now say, ‘I have come down from heaven’?”" 
John6:43 Jesus answered and said to them, “Stop grumbling among yourselves." 
John6:44 No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up on the last day. 
John6:45 It is written in the prophets, ‘And they shall all be taught by God.’ Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to Me." 
John6:46 Not that anyone has seen the Father, except the One who is from God; He has seen the Father." 
John6:47 Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes has eternal life." 
John6:48 I am the bread of life. 
John6:49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died." 
John6:50 This is the bread which comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die." 
John6:51 I am the living bread that came down from heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever; and also the bread which I will give for the life of the world is My flesh.”" 
John6:52 Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, “How can this man give us His flesh to eat?”" 
John6:53 So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in yourselves." 
John6:54 He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day." 
John6:55 For My flesh is true food, and My blood is true drink." 
John6:56 He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him." 
John6:57 As the living Father sent Me, and I live because of the Father, so he who eats Me, he also will live because of Me." 
John6:58 This is the bread which came down out of heaven, not as the fathers ate and died. He who eats this bread will live forever.”" 
John6:59 These things He said in the synagogue as He taught in Capernaum. 
John6:60 Therefore many of His disciples, when they heard this said, “This is a difficult statement; who can listen to it?”" 
John6:61 But Jesus, knowing in Himself that His disciples were grumbling at this, said to them, “Does this cause you to stumble?" 
John6:62 What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where He was before? 
John6:63 The Spirit is the One who gives life; the flesh profits nothing; the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and are life. 
John6:64 But there are some of you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray Him." 
John6:65 And He was saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me unless it has been granted him from the Father.”" 
John6:66 As a result of this many of His disciples went away and were not walking with Him anymore. 
John6:67 So Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you also want to go?”" 
John6:68 Simon Peter answered Him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life." 
John6:69 And we have believed and have come to know that You are the Holy One of God.” 
John6:70 Jesus answered them, “Did I Myself not choose you, the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil?”" 
John6:71 Now He was speaking of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray Him." 
John7:1 And after these things Jesus was walking in Galilee, for He was unwilling to walk in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill Him." 
John7:1 And after these things Jesus was walking in Galilee, for He was unwilling to walk in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill Him." 
John7:2 Now the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was near." 
John7:3 Therefore His brothers said to Him, “Leave here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may see Your works which You are doing." 
John7:3 Therefore His brothers said to Him, “Leave here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may see Your works which You are doing." 
John7:4 For no one does anything in secret when he himself seeks to be known openly. If You do these things, show Yourself publicly to the world.”" 
John7:5 For not even His brothers were believing in Him. 
John7:6 So Jesus said to them, “My time is not yet here, but your time is always here." 
John7:7 The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me because I bear witness about it, that its deeds are evil." 
John7:8 Go up to the feast yourselves; I am not yet going up to this feast because My time has not yet been fulfilled.” 
John7:9 Having said these things to them, He stayed in Galilee." 
John7:10 But when His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He Himself also went up, not publicly, but as in secret." 
John7:11 So the Jews were seeking Him at the feast and saying, “Where is He?”" 
John7:12 And there was much grumbling among the crowds concerning Him; some were saying, “He is a good man”; others were saying, “No, on the contrary, He leads the crowd astray.”" 
John7:13 Yet no one was speaking openly about Him for fear of the Jews. 
John7:14 But when it was now the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and began to teach." 
John7:15 The Jews then were marveling, saying, “How has this man become learned, not having been educated?”" 
John7:16 So Jesus answered them and said, “My teaching is not Mine, but from Him who sent Me." 
John7:17 If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is of God or I speak from Myself." 
John7:18 He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but He who is seeking the glory of the One who sent Him, He is true, and there is no unrighteousness in Him." 
John7:19 “Did not Moses give you the Law? And yet none of you does the Law. Why do you seek to kill Me?” 
John7:20 The crowd answered, “You have a demon! Who seeks to kill You?”" 
John7:21 Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel." 
John7:22 For this reason Moses has given you circumcision (not because it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man." 
John7:23 If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath so that the Law of Moses will not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made an entire man well on the Sabbath?" 
John7:24 Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment.”" 
John7:25 So some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, “Is this not the man whom they are seeking to kill?" 
John7:26 And look, He is speaking openly, and they are saying nothing to Him. Do the rulers truly know that this is the Christ?" 
John7:27 However, we know where this man is from; but whenever the Christ comes, no one knows where He is from.”" 
John7:28 Then Jesus cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, “You both know Me and know where I am from; and I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me is true, whom you do not know." 
John7:29 I know Him, because I am from Him, and He sent Me.”" 
John7:30 So they were seeking to seize Him; yet no man laid his hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come." 
John7:31 But many of the crowd believed in Him; and they were saying, “When the Christ comes, will He do more signs than this man did?”" 
John7:32 The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering these things about Him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to seize Him." 
John7:33 Therefore Jesus said, “For a little while longer I am with you, then I go to Him who sent Me." 
John7:34 You will seek Me, and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come.”" 
John7:35 The Jews then said to one another, “Where does this man intend to go that we will not find Him? Is He intending to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?" 
John7:36 What is this statement that He said, ‘You will seek Me, and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come’?”" 
John7:37 Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to Me and drink." 
John7:38 He who believes in Me, as the Scripture said, ‘From his innermost being will flow rivers of living water.’”" 
John7:39 But this He spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in Him were going to receive; for the Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified." 
John7:40 Some of the crowd therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, “This truly is the Prophet.”" 
John7:41 Others were saying, “This is the Christ.” Still others were saying, “No, for is the Christ going to come from Galilee?" 
John7:42 Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the seed of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?”" 
John7:43 So a division occurred in the crowd because of Him. 
John7:44 Some of them were wanting to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him." 
John7:45 The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why did you not bring Him?”" 
John7:46 The officers answered, “Never has a man spoken like this!”" 
John7:47 The Pharisees then answered them, “Have you also been led astray?" 
John7:48 Have any of the rulers or Pharisees believed in Him? 
John7:49 But this crowd which does not know the Law is accursed.” 
John7:50 Nicodemus (he who came to Him before), being one of them, said to them," 
John7:51 “Does our Law judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing?” 
John7:52 They answered him, “Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee.”" 
John7:53 [Everyone went to his home. 
John8:1 But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 
John8:2 Early in the morning He came again into the temple, and all the people were coming to Him; and He sat down and began to teach them." 
John8:3 The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the center of the court," 
John8:4 they said to Him, “Teacher, this woman has been caught in adultery, in the very act." 
John8:5 Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women; what then do You say?” 
John8:6 They were saying this, testing Him, so that they might have evidence to accuse Him. But Jesus stooped down and with His finger wrote on the ground." 
John8:7 But when they persisted in asking Him, He straightened up and said to them, “Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.”" 
John8:8 Again He stooped down and wrote on the ground. 
John8:9 When they heard it, they began to go out one by one, beginning with the older ones, and He was left alone, and the woman, where she was, in the center of the court." 
John8:10 Straightening up, Jesus said to her, “Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn you?”" 
John8:11 She said, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said, “I do not condemn you, either. Go, and from now on sin no more.”]" 
John8:12 Then Jesus again spoke to them, saying, “I am the Light of the world; he who follows Me will never walk in the darkness, but will have the Light of life.”" 
John8:13 So the Pharisees said to Him, “You are bearing witness about Yourself; Your witness is not true.”" 
John8:14 Jesus answered and said to them, “Even if I bear witness about Myself, My witness is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going." 
John8:15 You judge according to the flesh; I am not judging anyone. 
John8:16 But even if I do judge, My judgment is true; for I am not alone in it, but I and the Father who sent Me." 
John8:17 Even in your law it has been written that the witness of two men is true. 
John8:18 I am He who bears witness about Myself, and the Father who sent Me bears witness about Me.”" 
John8:19 So they were saying to Him, “Where is Your Father?” Jesus answered, “You know neither Me nor My Father; if you knew Me, you would know My Father also.”" 
John8:20 These words He spoke in the treasury, as He was teaching in the temple; and no one seized Him, because His hour had not yet come." 
John8:21 Then He said again to them, “I am going away, and you will seek Me, and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.”" 
John8:22 So the Jews were saying, “Surely He will not kill Himself, since He says, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come’?”" 
John8:23 And He was saying to them, “You are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world." 
John8:24 Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins.”" 
John8:25 So they were saying to Him, “Who are You?” Jesus said to them, “What have I been saying to you from the beginning?" 
John8:26 I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true; and the things which I heard from Him, these I am saying to the world.”" 
John8:27 They did not know that He had been speaking to them about the Father. 
John8:28 So Jesus said, “When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and I do nothing from Myself, but I speak these things as the Father taught Me." 
John8:29 And He who sent Me is with Me; He has not left Me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to Him.”" 
John8:30 As He was speaking these things, many believed in Him." 
John8:31 So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If you abide in My word, then you are truly My disciples;" 
John8:32 and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.”" 
John8:33 They answered Him, “We are Abraham’s seed and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that You say, ‘You will become free’?”" 
John8:34 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin." 
John8:35 And the slave does not remain in the house forever; the son does remain forever. 
John8:36 So if the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed." 
John8:37 I know that you are Abraham’s seed; yet you are seeking to kill Me, because My word has no place in you." 
John8:38 I speak the things which I have seen with My Father; therefore you also do the things which you heard from your father.” 
John8:39 They answered and said to Him, “Abraham is our father.” Jesus said to them, “If you are Abraham’s children, you would do the deeds of Abraham." 
John8:40 But now you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do." 
John8:41 You are doing the deeds of your father.” They said to Him, “We were not born of sexual immorality; we have one Father: God.”" 
John8:42 Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love Me, for I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I have not even come of Myself, but He sent Me." 
John8:43 Why do you not understand what I am saying? It is because you cannot hear My word. 
John8:44 You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies." 
John8:45 But because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me." 
John8:46 Which one of you convicts Me of sin? If I speak truth, why do you not believe Me?" 
John8:47 He who is of God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear them, because you are not of God.”" 
John8:48 The Jews answered and said to Him, “Do we not say rightly that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?”" 
John8:49 Jesus answered, “I do not have a demon, but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me." 
John8:50 But I do not seek My glory; there is One who seeks and judges. 
John8:51 Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps My word he will never see death—ever.”" 
John8:52 The Jews said to Him, “Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets also; and You say, ‘If anyone keeps My word, he will never taste of death—ever.’" 
John8:53 Surely You are not greater than our father Abraham who died? The prophets died too; whom do You make Yourself out to be?” 
John8:54 Jesus answered, “If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say, ‘He is our God’;" 
John8:55 and you have not known Him, but I know Him; and if I say that I do not know Him, I will be a liar like you, but I do know Him and keep His word." 
John8:56 Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day, and he saw it and was glad.”" 
John8:57 So the Jews said to Him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?”" 
John8:58 Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.”" 
John8:59 Therefore they picked up stones to throw at Him, but Jesus hid Himself and went out of the temple." 
John9:1 As He passed by, He saw a man blind from birth." 
John9:2 And His disciples asked Him, saying, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind?”" 
John9:3 Jesus answered, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but this was so that the works of God might be manifested in him." 
John9:4 We must work the works of Him who sent Me as long as it is day; night is coming when no one can work. 
John9:5 While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.”" 
John9:6 When He had said this, He spat on the ground, made clay of the saliva, and rubbed the clay on his eyes," 
John9:7 and said to him, “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which is translated, Sent). So he went away and washed, and came back seeing." 
John9:8 Therefore the neighbors, and those who previously saw him as a beggar, were saying, “Is not this the one who used to sit and beg?”" 
John9:9 Others were saying, “This is he,” still others were saying, “No, but he is like him.” He kept saying, “I am the one.”" 
John9:10 So they were saying to him, “How then were your eyes opened?”" 
John9:11 He answered, “The man who is called Jesus made clay, and rubbed my eyes, and said to me, ‘Go to Siloam and wash’; so when I went away and washed, I received sight.”" 
John9:12 And they said to him, “Where is He?” He said, “I do not know.”" 
John9:13 They brought to the Pharisees the man who was formerly blind. 
John9:14 Now it was a Sabbath on the day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. 
John9:15 So the Pharisees also were asking him again how he received his sight. And he said to them, “He applied clay to my eyes, and I washed, and I see.”" 
John9:16 So then some of the Pharisees were saying, “This man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath.” But others were saying, “How can a sinful man do such signs?” And there was a division among them." 
John9:17 Therefore, they said to the blind man again, “What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes?” And he said, “He is a prophet.”" 
John9:18 Then, the Jews did not believe it of him that he was blind and had received sight, until they called the parents of the very one who had received his sight," 
John9:19 and questioned them, saying, “Is this your son, who you say was born blind? Then how does he now see?”" 
John9:20 So his parents answered and said, “We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;" 
John9:21 but how he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; he is of age, he will speak for himself.”" 
John9:22 His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Him to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue." 
John9:23 For this reason his parents said, “He is of age; ask him.”" 
John9:24 Therefore, a second time they called the man who had been blind, and said to him, “Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.”" 
John9:25 He then answered, “Whether He is a sinner, I do not know; one thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see.”" 
John9:26 So they said to him, “What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?”" 
John9:27 He answered them, “I told you already and you did not listen. Why do you want to listen again? Do you want to become His disciples too?”" 
John9:28 And they reviled him and said, “You are His disciple, but we are disciples of Moses." 
John9:29 We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where He is from.”" 
John9:30 The man answered and said to them, “Well, here is a marvelous thing, that you do not know where He is from, and He opened my eyes." 
John9:31 We know that God does not listen to sinners; but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He listens to him." 
John9:32 Since the beginning of time it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind. 
John9:33 If this man were not from God, He could do nothing.”" 
John9:34 They answered and said to him, “You were born entirely in sins, and are you teaching us?” So they put him out." 
John9:35 Jesus heard that they had put him out, and after finding him, He said, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?”" 
John9:36 He answered and said, “Who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?”" 
John9:37 Jesus said to him, “You have both seen Him, and He is the one who is talking with you.”" 
John9:38 And he said, “Lord, I believe.” And he worshiped Him." 
John9:39 And Jesus said, “For judgment I came into this world, so that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind.”" 
John9:40 Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things and said to Him, “Are we blind too?”" 
John9:41 Jesus said to them, “If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now that you say, ‘We see,’ your sin remains." 
John10:1 “Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter by the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbs up some other way, he is a thief and a robber." 
John10:2 But he who enters by the door is a shepherd of the sheep. 
John10:3 To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out." 
John10:4 When he brings all his own out, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice." 
John10:5 A stranger they will never follow, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.”" 
John10:6 This figure of speech Jesus spoke to them, but they did not understand what those things were which He had been saying to them." 
John10:7 So Jesus said to them again, “Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep." 
John10:8 All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them." 
John10:9 I am the door; if anyone enters through Me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture." 
John10:10 The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I came that they may have life, and have it abundantly." 
John10:11 “I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep. 
John10:12 He who is a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep, sees the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep and flees—and the wolf snatches and scatters them—" 
John10:13 because he is a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep. 
John10:14 I am the good shepherd, and I know My own and My own know Me," 
John10:15 even as the Father knows Me and I know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep. 
John10:16 And I have other sheep, which are not from this fold; I must bring them also, and they will hear My voice; and they will become one flock with one shepherd." 
John10:17 For this reason the Father loves Me, because I lay down My life so that I may take it again." 
John10:18 No one takes it away from Me, but from Myself, I lay it down. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I received from My Father.”" 
John10:19 A division occurred again among the Jews because of these words. 
John10:20 And many of them were saying, “He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to Him?”" 
John10:21 Others were saying, “These are not the words of someone demon-possessed. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?”" 
John10:22 At that time the Feast of the Dedication took place at Jerusalem; 
John10:23 it was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the Portico of Solomon." 
John10:24 The Jews then gathered around Him, and were saying to Him, “How long will You keep us in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us openly.”" 
John10:25 Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you do not believe; the works that I do in My Father’s name, these bear witness of Me." 
John10:26 But you do not believe because you are not of My sheep. 
John10:27 My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me;" 
John10:28 and I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish—ever; and no one will snatch them out of My hand." 
John10:29 My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand." 
John10:30 I and the Father are one.” 
John10:31 The Jews picked up stones again to stone Him. 
John10:32 Jesus answered them, “I showed you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you stoning Me?”" 
John10:33 The Jews answered Him, “For a good work we do not stone You, but for blasphemy; and because You, being a man, make Yourself God.”" 
John10:34 Jesus answered them, “Has it not been written in your Law, ‘I said, you are gods’?" 
John10:35 If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture cannot be broken)," 
John10:36 do you say of Him, whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’?" 
John10:37 If I do not do the works of My Father, do not believe Me;" 
John10:38 but if I do them, though you do not believe Me, believe the works, so that you may know and continue knowing that the Father is in Me, and I in the Father.”" 
John10:39 Therefore they were seeking again to seize Him, and He eluded their grasp." 
John10:40 And He went away again beyond the Jordan to the place where John was first baptizing, and He was staying there." 
John10:41 And many came to Him and were saying, “While John did no sign, yet everything John said about this man was true.”" 
John10:42 And many believed in Him there. 
John11:1 Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha." 
John11:2 And it was the Mary who anointed the Lord with perfume, and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick." 
John11:3 So the sisters sent to Him, saying, “Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick.”" 
John11:4 But when Jesus heard this, He said, “This sickness is not to end in death, but is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it.”" 
John11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. 
John11:6 So when He heard that he was sick, He then stayed two days in the place where He was." 
John11:7 Then after this He said to the disciples, “Let us go to Judea again.”" 
John11:7 Then after this He said to the disciples, “Let us go to Judea again.”" 
John11:8 The disciples said to Him, “Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and are You going there again?”" 
John11:9 Jesus answered, “Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world." 
John11:10 But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.”" 
John11:11 He said these things, and after that He said to them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I go, so that I may awaken him.”" 
John11:12 The disciples then said to Him, “Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will be saved from his sickness.”" 
John11:13 Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that He was speaking of actual sleep." 
John11:14 So Jesus then said to them plainly, “Lazarus is dead," 
John11:15 and I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe; but let us go to him.”" 
John11:16 Therefore Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, “Let us also go, so that we may die with Him.”" 
John11:17 So when Jesus came, He found that he had already been in the tomb four days." 
John11:18 Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away;" 
John11:19 and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to console them about their brother." 
John11:20 Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him, but Mary was sitting in the house." 
John11:21 Martha then said to Jesus, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died." 
John11:22 But even now I know that whatever You ask from God, God will give You.”" 
John11:23 Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”" 
John11:24 Martha said to Him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day.”" 
John11:25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes in Me will live even if he dies," 
John11:26 and everyone who lives and believes in Me will never die—ever. Do you believe this?” 
John11:27 She said to Him, “Yes, Lord; I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, the One who comes into the world.”" 
John11:28 And when she had said this, she went away and called Mary her sister, saying secretly, “The Teacher is here and is calling for you.”" 
John11:29 And when she heard it, she got up quickly and was coming to Him." 
John11:30 Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met Him." 
John11:31 Then the Jews—who were with her in the house and consoling her—when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, they followed her, thinking that she was going to the tomb to cry there." 
John11:32 Therefore, when Mary came where Jesus was, she saw Him, and fell at His feet, saying to Him, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.”" 
John11:33 When Jesus therefore saw her crying, and the Jews who came with her also crying, He was deeply moved in spirit and was troubled," 
John11:34 and said, “Where have you laid him?” They said to Him, “Lord, come and see.”" 
John11:35 Jesus wept. 
John11:36 So the Jews were saying, “See how He loved him!”" 
John11:37 But some of them said, “Could not this man, who opened the eyes of the blind man, have kept this man also from dying?”" 
John11:38 So Jesus, again being deeply moved within, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it." 
John11:39 Jesus said, “Remove the stone.” Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to Him, “Lord, by this time he smells, for he has been dead four days.”" 
John11:40 Jesus said to her, “Did I not say to you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God?”" 
John11:41 So they removed the stone. Then Jesus raised His eyes, and said, “Father, I thank You that You have heard Me." 
John11:42 And I knew that You always hear Me; but because of the crowd standing around I said this, so that they may believe that You sent Me.”" 
John11:43 And when He had said these things, He cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come forth.”" 
John11:44 The man who had died came forth, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Unbind him, and let him go.”" 
John11:45 Therefore many of the Jews who came to Mary, and saw what He had done, believed in Him." 
John11:46 But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them the things which Jesus had done. 
John11:47 Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the Sanhedrin together, and were saying, “What are we doing? For this man is doing many signs." 
John11:48 If we let Him go on like this, all will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.”" 
John11:48 If we let Him go on like this, all will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.”" 
John11:49 But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, “You know nothing at all," 
John11:50 nor do you take into account that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation not perish.”" 
John11:51 Now he did not say this from himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation," 
John11:52 and not for the nation only, but in order that He might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad." 
John11:53 So from that day on they planned together to kill Him. 
John11:54 Therefore Jesus no longer continued to walk openly among the Jews, but went away from there to the region near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim; and there He stayed with the disciples." 
John11:55 Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem from the region before the Passover to purify themselves." 
John11:56 So they were seeking Jesus, and were saying to one another as they stood in the temple, “What do you think? That He will not come to the feast at all?”" 
John11:57 Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was, he was to report it, so that they might seize Him." 
John12:1 Jesus, therefore, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead." 
John12:2 So they made Him a supper there, and Martha was serving; and Lazarus was one of those reclining at the table with Him." 
John12:3 Mary then took a litra of perfume of very costly pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped His feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume." 
John12:4 But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, who was going to betray Him, said," 
John12:5 “Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?” 
John12:6 Now he said this, not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief, and as he had the money box, he used to take from what was put into it." 
John12:7 Therefore Jesus said, “Let her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of My burial." 
John12:8 For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have Me.”" 
John12:9 Then the large crowd from the Jews learned that He was there. And they came, not because of Jesus only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He raised from the dead." 
John12:10 But the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death also; 
John12:11 because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and were believing in Jesus. 
John12:12 On the next day the large crowd who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem," 
John12:13 took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and began to shout, “Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel.”" 
John12:14 And Jesus, finding a young donkey, sat on it; as it is written," 
John12:15 “Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King is coming, seated on a donkey’s colt.”" 
John12:16 These things His disciples did not understand at the first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about Him, and that they had done these things to Him." 
John12:17 So the crowd, who was with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness about Him." 
John12:18 For this reason also the crowd went and met Him, because they heard that He had done this sign." 
John12:19 So the Pharisees said to one another, “You see that you are gaining nothing; look, the world has gone after Him.”" 
John12:20 Now there were some Greeks among those who were going up to worship at the feast; 
John12:21 these then came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and began to ask him, saying, “Sir, we wish to see Jesus.”" 
John12:22 Philip came and told Andrew; Andrew and Philip came and told Jesus. 
John12:23 And Jesus answered them, saying, “The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified." 
John12:24 Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit." 
John12:25 He who loves his life loses it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it to life eternal." 
John12:26 If anyone serves Me, he must follow Me; and where I am, there My servant will be also; if anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him." 
John12:27 “Now My soul has become dismayed; and what shall I say, ‘Father, save Me from this hour’? But for this purpose I came to this hour." 
John12:28 Father, glorify Your name.” Then a voice came from heaven: “I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.”" 
John12:29 So the crowd of people who stood by and heard it were saying that it had thundered; others were saying, “An angel has spoken to Him.”" 
John12:30 Jesus answered and said, “This voice has not come for My sake, but for your sake." 
John12:31 Now judgment is upon this world; now the ruler of this world will be cast out. 
John12:32 And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to Myself.”" 
John12:33 But He was saying this to indicate the kind of death by which He was about to die. 
John12:34 The crowd then answered Him, “We have heard from the Law that the Christ is to remain forever; and how do You say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this Son of Man?”" 
John12:35 So Jesus said to them, “For a little while longer the Light is among you. Walk while you have the Light, so that darkness will not overtake you; he who walks in the darkness does not know where he goes." 
John12:36 While you have the Light, believe in the Light, so that you may become sons of Light.” These things Jesus spoke, and He went away and hid Himself from them." 
John12:37 But though He had done so many signs before them, they still were not believing in Him," 
John12:38 so that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke: “Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”" 
John12:39 For this reason they could not believe, for Isaiah said again," 
John12:40 “He has blinded their eyes and He hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart, and return and I heal them.”" 
John12:41 These things Isaiah said because he saw His glory, and he spoke about Him." 
John12:42 Nevertheless many even of the rulers believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they were not confessing Him, for fear that they would be put out of the synagogue;" 
John12:43 for they loved the glory of men rather than the glory of God. 
John12:44 And Jesus cried out and said, “He who believes in Me, does not believe in Me but in Him who sent Me." 
John12:45 And he who sees Me sees the One who sent Me. 
John12:46 I have come as Light into the world, so that everyone who believes in Me will not remain in darkness." 
John12:47 And if anyone hears My words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world." 
John12:48 He who rejects Me and does not receive My words, has one who judges him; the word I spoke is what will judge him on the last day." 
John12:49 For I did not speak from Myself, but the Father Himself who sent Me has given Me a commandment—what to say and what to speak." 
John12:50 And I know that His commandment is eternal life; therefore the things I speak, I speak just as the Father has told Me.”" 
John13:1 Now before the Feast of the Passover, Jesus knowing that His hour had come that He would depart out of this world to the Father, having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the end." 
John13:2 And during supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray Him," 
John13:3 Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into His hands, and that He had come forth from God and was going back to God," 
John13:4 got up from supper, and laid aside His garments; and taking a towel, He tied it around Himself." 
John13:5 Then He poured water into the washbasin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet and to wipe them with the towel which He had tied around Himself." 
John13:6 So He came to Simon Peter. He said to Him, “Lord, are You going to wash my feet?”" 
John13:7 Jesus answered and said to him, “What I am doing you do not realize now, but you will understand afterwards.”" 
John13:8 Peter said to Him, “You will never wash my feet—ever!” Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you have no part with Me.”" 
John13:9 Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head.”" 
John13:10 Jesus said to him, “He who has bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean; and you are clean, but not all of you.”" 
John13:11 For He knew the one who was betraying Him; for this reason He said, “Not all of you are clean.”" 
John13:12 So when He had washed their feet, and taken His garments and reclined at the table again, He said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you?" 
John13:13 You call Me Teacher and Lord; and you are right, for so I am." 
John13:14 If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet." 
John13:15 For I gave you an example that you also should do as I did to you. 
John13:16 Truly, truly, I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master, nor is one who is sent greater than the one who sent him." 
John13:17 If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them." 
John13:18 I do not speak about all of you. I know the ones I have chosen; but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats My bread has lifted up his heel against Me.’" 
John13:19 From now on I am telling you before it occurs, so that when it does occur, you may believe that I am He." 
John13:20 Truly, truly, I say to you, he who receives anyone I send receives Me; and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.”" 
John13:21 When Jesus had said these things, He became troubled in spirit, and bore witness and said, “Truly, truly, I say to you, that one of you will betray Me.”" 
John13:22 The disciples began looking at one another, perplexed about whom He spoke." 
John13:23 There was reclining on Jesus’ bosom one of His disciples, whom Jesus loved." 
John13:24 So Simon Peter gestured to him to inquire, “Who is the one of whom He is speaking?”" 
John13:25 He, leaning back thus on Jesus’ bosom, said to Him, “Lord, who is it?”" 
John13:26 Jesus answered, “He is the one for whom I shall dip the piece of bread and give it to him.” So when He had dipped the piece of bread, He took and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot." 
John13:27 And after the piece of bread, Satan then entered into him. Therefore Jesus said to him, “What you do, do quickly.”" 
John13:28 Now no one of those reclining at the table knew for what purpose He had said this to him. 
John13:29 For some were thinking, because Judas had the money box, that Jesus was saying to him, “Buy the things we have need of for the feast”; or else, that he should give something to the poor." 
John13:30 So after receiving the piece of bread, he went out immediately. And it was night." 
John13:31 Therefore when he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in Him;" 
John13:32 if God is glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him immediately." 
John13:33 Little children, I am with you a little while longer. You will seek Me; and as I said to the Jews, now I also say to you, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come.’" 
John13:34 A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another." 
John13:35 By this all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.”" 
John13:36 Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, where are You going?” Jesus answered, “Where I go, you cannot follow Me now; but you will follow later.”" 
John13:37 Peter said to Him, “Lord, why can I not follow You right now? I will lay down my life for You.”" 
John13:38 Jesus answered, “Will you lay down your life for Me? Truly, truly, I say to you, a rooster will not crow until you deny Me three times." 
John14:1 “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in Me." 
John14:2 In My Father’s house are many dwelling places; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you." 
John14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself, that where I am, there you may be also." 
John14:4 And you know the way where I am going.” 
John14:5 Thomas said to Him, “Lord, we do not know where You are going. How do we know the way?”" 
John14:6 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through Me." 
John14:7 If you have come to know Me, you will know My Father also; from now on you know Him, and have seen Him.”" 
John14:8 Philip said to Him, “Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.”" 
John14:9 Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you all so long and have you not come to know Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?" 
John14:10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak from Myself, but the Father abiding in Me does His works." 
John14:11 Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me; otherwise believe because of the works themselves. 
John14:12 Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do, he will do also; and greater works than these he will do because I go to the Father." 
John14:13 Whatever you ask in My name, this will I do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son." 
John14:14 If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do it." 
John14:15 “If you love Me, you will keep My commandments." 
John14:16 And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Advocate, that He may be with you forever;" 
John14:17 the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not see Him or know Him. You know Him because He abides with you and will be in you." 
John14:18 “I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. 
John14:19 After a little while the world will no longer see Me, but you will see Me; because I live, you will live also." 
John14:20 On that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you." 
John14:21 He who has My commandments and keeps them is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will disclose Myself to him.”" 
John14:22 Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, “Lord, what then has happened that You are going to disclose Yourself to us and not to the world?”" 
John14:23 Jesus answered and said to him, “If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word; and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make Our dwelling with him." 
John14:24 He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father’s who sent Me." 
John14:25 “These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you. 
John14:26 But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you." 
John14:27 Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful." 
John14:28 You heard that I said to you, ‘I go away, and I will come to you.’ If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced because I go to the Father, for the Father is greater than I." 
John14:29 And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe." 
John14:30 I will not speak much more with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has nothing in Me;" 
John14:31 but so that the world may know that I love the Father, I do exactly as the Father commanded Me. Get up, let us go from here." 
John15:1 “I am the true vine, and My Father is the vine-grower." 
John15:2 Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit, He takes away; and every branch that bears fruit, He cleans it so that it may bear more fruit." 
John15:3 You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. 
John15:4 Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit from itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in Me." 
John15:5 I am the vine, you are the branches; he who abides in Me and I in him, he bears much fruit, for apart from Me you can do nothing." 
John15:6 If anyone does not abide in Me, he is thrown away as a branch and dries up; and they gather them, and cast them into the fire and they are burned." 
John15:7 If you abide in Me, and My words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you." 
John15:8 My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be My disciples." 
John15:9 Just as the Father has loved Me, I have also loved you; abide in My love." 
John15:10 If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love; just as I have kept My Father’s commandments and abide in His love." 
John15:11 These things I have spoken to you so that My joy may be in you, and that your joy may be complete." 
John15:12 “This is My commandment, that you love one another, just as I have loved you." 
John15:13 Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends." 
John15:14 You are My friends if you do what I command you. 
John15:15 No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from My Father I have made known to you." 
John15:16 You did not choose Me but I chose you, and appointed you that you would go and bear fruit, and that your fruit would abide, so that whatever you ask of the Father in My name He may give to you." 
John15:17 This I command you, that you love one another." 
John15:18 “If the world hates you, know that it has hated Me before it hated you." 
John15:19 If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you." 
John15:20 Remember the word that I said to you, ‘A slave is not greater than his master.’ If they persecuted Me, they will also persecute you; if they kept My word, they will keep yours also." 
John15:21 But all these things they will do to you for My name’s sake, because they do not know the One who sent Me." 
John15:22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin." 
John15:23 He who hates Me hates My Father also. 
John15:24 If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sin; but now they have both seen and hated Me and My Father as well." 
John15:25 But this happened to fulfill the word that is written in their Law, ‘They hated Me without cause.’" 
John15:26 “When the Advocate comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will bear witness about Me," 
John15:27 and you will bear witness also, because you have been with Me from the beginning." 
John16:1 “These things I have spoken to you so that you may be kept from stumbling. 
John16:2 They will put you out of the synagogue, but an hour is coming for everyone who kills you to think that he is offering service to God." 
John16:3 These things they will do because they did not know the Father or Me. 
John16:4 But these things I have spoken to you, so that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told you of them. These things I did not say to you at the beginning, because I was with you." 
John16:5 “But now I am going to Him who sent Me; and none of you asks Me, ‘Where are You going?’" 
John16:6 But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart." 
John16:7 But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Advocate will not come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you." 
John16:8 And He, when He comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment;" 
John16:9 concerning sin, because they do not believe in Me;" 
John16:10 and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father and you no longer see Me;" 
John16:11 and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged." 
John16:12 “I still have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now." 
John16:13 But when He, the Spirit of truth, comes, He will guide you into all the truth; for He will not speak from Himself, but whatever He hears, He will speak; and He will disclose to you what is to come." 
John16:14 He will glorify Me, for He will take of Mine and will disclose it to you." 
John16:15 All things that the Father has are Mine; therefore I said that He takes of Mine and will disclose it to you. 
John16:16 “A little while, and you will no longer see Me; and again a little while, and you will see Me.”" 
John16:17 Some of His disciples then said to one another, “What is this He is telling us, ‘A little while, and you will not see Me; and again a little while, and you will see Me’; and, ‘because I go to the Father’?”" 
John16:18 So they were saying, “What is this that He says, ‘A little while’? We do not know what He is talking about.”" 
John16:19 Jesus knew that they were wishing to question Him, and He said to them, “Are you deliberating together about this, that I said, ‘A little while, and you will not see Me, and again a little while, and you will see Me’?" 
John16:20 Truly, truly, I say to you, that you will cry and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy." 
John16:21 Whenever a woman is in labor she has sorrow, because her hour has come; but when she gives birth to the child, she no longer remembers the suffering because of the joy that a child has been born into the world." 
John16:22 Therefore you too have sorrow now; but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you." 
John16:23 And on that day you will not question Me about anything. Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in My name, He will give it to you." 
John16:24 Until now you have asked for nothing in My name; ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be made complete." 
John16:25 “These things I have spoken to you in figures of speech; an hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you openly of the Father." 
John16:26 On that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will request of the Father on your behalf;" 
John16:27 for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me and have believed that I came forth from the Father." 
John16:28 I came forth from the Father and have come into the world; I am leaving the world again and going to the Father.” 
John16:29 His disciples said, “Behold, now You are speaking openly and are not using a figure of speech." 
John16:30 Now we know that You know all things, and have no need for anyone to question You; by this we believe that You came from God.”" 
John16:31 Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?" 
John16:32 Behold, an hour is coming, and has already come, for you to be scattered, each to his own home, and to leave Me alone; and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me." 
John16:33 These things I have spoken to you, so that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but take courage; I have overcome the world.”" 
John17:1 Jesus spoke these things; and lifting up His eyes to heaven, He said, “Father, the hour has come; glorify Your Son, that the Son may glorify You," 
John17:2 even as You gave Him authority over all flesh, that to all whom You have given Him, He may give eternal life." 
John17:3 And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent." 
John17:4 I glorified You on the earth, having finished the work which You have given Me to do." 
John17:5 Now, Father, glorify Me together with Yourself, with the glory which I had with You before the world was." 
John17:6 “I have manifested Your name to the men whom You gave Me out of the world; they were Yours and You gave them to Me, and they have kept Your word." 
John17:7 Now they have come to know that everything You have given Me is from You; 
John17:8 for the words which You gave Me I have given to them; and they received them and truly understood that I came forth from You, and they believed that You sent Me." 
John17:9 I ask on their behalf; I do not ask on behalf of the world but of those whom You have given Me; for they are Yours; 
John17:10 and all things that are Mine are Yours, and Yours are Mine; and I have been glorified in them." 
John17:11 And I am no longer in the world; and yet they themselves are in the world, and I come to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name, the name which You have given Me, that they may be one even as We are." 
John17:12 While I was with them, I was keeping them in Your name which You have given Me; and I guarded them and not one of them perished but the son of perdition, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled." 
John17:13 But now I come to You; and these things I speak in the world so that they may have My joy made full in themselves. 
John17:14 I have given them Your word; and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world." 
John17:15 I do not ask You to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one." 
John17:16 They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world." 
John17:17 Sanctify them by the truth; Your word is truth. 
John17:18 As You sent Me into the world, I also sent them into the world." 
John17:19 For their sake I sanctify Myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth." 
John17:20 “I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but for those also who believe in Me through their word;" 
John17:21 that they may all be one; even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You, that they also may be in Us, so that the world may believe that You sent Me." 
John17:22 The glory which You have given Me I have given to them, that they may be one, just as We are one;" 
John17:23 I in them and You in Me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that You sent Me, and loved them, even as You have loved Me." 
John17:24 Father, I desire that they also, whom You have given Me, be with Me where I am, so that they may see My glory which You have given Me, for You loved Me before the foundation of the world." 
John17:25 “O righteous Father, although the world has not known You, yet I have known You; and these have known that You sent Me;" 
John17:26 and I have made Your name known to them, and will make it known, so that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them.”" 
John18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, He went forth with His disciples to the other side of the Kidron Valley, where there was a garden, into which He entered with His disciples." 
John18:2 Now Judas also, who was betraying Him, knew the place, for Jesus had often gathered there with His disciples." 
John18:3 Judas then, having received the Roman cohort and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons." 
John18:4 So Jesus, knowing all the things that were coming upon Him, went forth and said to them, “Whom do you seek?”" 
John18:5 They answered Him, “Jesus the Nazarene.” He said to them, “I am He.” And Judas also, who was betraying Him, was standing with them." 
John18:6 So when He said to them, “I am He,” they drew back and fell to the ground." 
John18:7 Therefore He again asked them, “Whom do you seek?” And they said, “Jesus the Nazarene.”" 
John18:8 Jesus answered, “I told you that I am He; so if you seek Me, let these go their way,”" 
John18:9 in order that the word which He spoke would be fulfilled, “Of those whom You have given Me, I lost not one.”" 
John18:10 Simon Peter then, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest’s slave, and cut off his right ear; and the slave’s name was Malchus." 
John18:11 So Jesus said to Peter, “Put the sword into the sheath; the cup which the Father has given Me, shall I not drink it?”" 
John18:12 So the Roman cohort and the commander and the officers of the Jews, arrested Jesus and bound Him," 
John18:13 and led Him to Annas first; for he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year." 
John18:14 Now Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that it was better for one man to die on behalf of the people. 
John18:15 And Simon Peter was following Jesus, and so was another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest, and entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest," 
John18:16 but Peter was standing at the door outside. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper, and brought Peter in." 
John18:17 Then the servant-girl who kept the door said to Peter, “Are you not also one of this man’s disciples?” He said, “I am not.”" 
John18:18 Now the slaves and the officers were standing there, having made a charcoal fire, for it was cold and they were warming themselves; and Peter was also with them, standing and warming himself." 
John18:19 The high priest then questioned Jesus about His disciples, and about His teaching." 
John18:20 Jesus answered him, “I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where all the Jews come together; and I spoke nothing in secret." 
John18:21 Why do you question Me? Question those who have heard what I spoke to them; behold, they know what I said.”" 
John18:22 And when He had said this, one of the officers standing nearby gave Jesus a slap, saying, “Is that the way You answer the high priest?”" 
John18:23 Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken wrongly, bear witness of the wrong; but if rightly, why do you strike Me?”" 
John18:24 So Annas sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. 
John18:25 Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, “You are not also one of His disciples, are you?” He denied it, and said, “I am not.”" 
John18:26 One of the slaves of the high priest, being a relative of the one whose ear Peter cut off, said, “Did I not see you in the garden with Him?”" 
John18:27 Peter then denied it again, and immediately a rooster crowed." 
John18:28 Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the Praetorium, and it was early; and they themselves did not enter into the Praetorium so that they would not be defiled, but might eat the Passover." 
John18:29 Therefore Pilate went out to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?”" 
John18:30 They answered and said to him, “If this man were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered Him to you.”" 
John18:31 So Pilate said to them, “Take Him yourselves, and judge Him according to your law.” The Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death,”" 
John18:32 in order that the word of Jesus which He spoke would be fulfilled, signifying by what kind of death He was about to die." 
John18:33 Therefore Pilate entered again into the Praetorium, and summoned Jesus and said to Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?”" 
John18:34 Jesus answered, “Are you saying this from yourself, or did others tell you about Me?”" 
John18:35 Pilate answered, “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests delivered You to me; what did You do?”" 
John18:36 Jesus answered, “My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, then My servants would be fighting so that I would not be delivered over to the Jews; but as it is, My kingdom is not from here.”" 
John18:37 Therefore Pilate said to Him, “So You are a king?” Jesus answered, “You yourself said I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice.”" 
John18:38 Pilate said to Him, “What is truth?” And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them, “I find no guilt in Him." 
John18:39 But you have a custom that I release someone for you at the Passover; do you wish then that I release for you the King of the Jews?” 
John18:40 So they cried out again, saying, “Not this man, but Barabbas.” Now Barabbas was a robber." 
John19:1 Pilate then took Jesus and flogged Him. 
John19:2 And when the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns, they put it on His head, and put a purple robe on Him;" 
John19:3 and they were coming to Him and saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” and were giving Him slaps in the face." 
John19:4 And Pilate came out again and said to them, “Behold, I am bringing Him out to you so that you may know that I find no guilt in Him.”" 
John19:5 Jesus then came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, “Behold, the man!”" 
John19:6 So when the chief priests and the officers saw Him, they cried out saying, “Crucify, crucify!” Pilate said to them, “Take Him yourselves and crucify Him, for I find no guilt in Him.”" 
John19:7 The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and by that law He ought to die because He made Himself out to be the Son of God.”" 
John19:8 Therefore when Pilate heard this statement, he became more afraid;" 
John19:9 and he entered into the Praetorium again and said to Jesus, “Where are You from?” But Jesus gave him no answer." 
John19:10 So Pilate said to Him, “You do not speak to me? Do You not know that I have authority to release You, and I have authority to crucify You?”" 
John19:11 Jesus answered, “You would have no authority over Me, unless it had been given you from above; for this reason he who delivered Me to you has the greater sin.”" 
John19:12 As a result of this Pilate kept seeking to release Him, but the Jews cried out saying, “If you release this man, you are no friend of Caesar; everyone who makes himself to be a king opposes Caesar.”" 
John19:13 Therefore when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Stone Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha." 
John19:14 Now it was the day of Preparation for the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, “Behold, your King!”" 
John19:15 So they cried out, “Away with Him! Away with Him! Crucify Him!” Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your King?” The chief priests answered, “We have no king but Caesar.”" 
John19:16 So he then delivered Him over to them to be crucified. 
John19:17 They took Jesus, therefore, and He went out, bearing His own cross, to the place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha." 
John19:18 There they crucified Him, and with Him two other men, one on either side, and Jesus in between." 
John19:19 And Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It was written, “JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.”" 
John19:20 Therefore many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and in Greek." 
John19:21 So the chief priests of the Jews were saying to Pilate, “Do not write, ‘The King of the Jews;’ but that He said, ‘I am King of the Jews.’”" 
John19:22 Pilate answered, “What I have written I have written.”" 
John19:23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took His garments and made four parts, a part to each soldier and also His tunic; now that tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from the top." 
John19:24 So they said to one another, “Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, to decide whose it shall be;” this was in order that the Scripture would be fulfilled: “They divided My garments among them, and for My clothing they cast lots.”" 
John19:25 Therefore the soldiers did these things. But standing by the cross of Jesus were His mother, and His mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene." 
John19:26 When Jesus then saw His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing nearby, He said to His mother, “Woman, behold, your son!”" 
John19:27 Then He said to the disciple, “Behold, your mother!” From that hour the disciple took her into his home." 
John19:28 After this, Jesus, knowing that all things had already been finished, in order to finish the Scripture, said, “I am thirsty.”" 
John19:29 A jar full of sour wine was standing there; so they put a sponge full of the sour wine upon a branch of hyssop and brought it up to His mouth. 
John19:30 Therefore when Jesus had received the sour wine, He said, “It is finished!” And bowing His head, He gave up His spirit." 
John19:31 Then the Jews, because it was the day of Preparation, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away." 
John19:32 So the soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first man and of the other who was crucified with Him;" 
John19:33 but coming to Jesus, when they saw that He was already dead, they did not break His legs." 
John19:34 But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out." 
John19:35 And he who has seen has borne witness, and his witness is true; and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you also may believe." 
John19:36 For these things came to pass in order that the Scripture would be fulfilled, “Not a bone of Him shall be broken.”" 
John19:37 And again another Scripture says, “They shall look on Him whom they pierced.”" 
John19:38 Now after these things Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly because of his fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus; and Pilate granted permission. So he came and took away His body." 
John19:39 And Nicodemus, who had first come to Him by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, weighing about one hundred litras." 
John19:40 So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen wrappings with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews." 
John19:41 Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid." 
John19:42 Therefore because of the Jewish day of Preparation, since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there." 
John20:1 Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came early to the tomb, while it was still dark, and saw the stone already taken away from the tomb." 
John20:2 So she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, “They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid Him.”" 
John20:3 So Peter and the other disciple went forth, and they were going to the tomb." 
John20:4 And the two were running together; and the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came to the tomb first; 
John20:5 and stooping and looking in, he saw the linen wrappings lying there; but he did not go in." 
John20:6 And so Simon Peter also came, following him, and entered the tomb; and he saw the linen wrappings lying there," 
John20:7 and the face-cloth which had been on His head, not lying with the linen wrappings, but folded up in a place by itself." 
John20:8 So the other disciple who had first come to the tomb then also entered, and he saw and believed." 
John20:9 For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that He must rise again from the dead." 
John20:10 So the disciples went away again to where they were staying. 
John20:11 But Mary was standing outside the tomb crying; and so, as she was crying, she stooped to look into the tomb;" 
John20:12 and she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been lying." 
John20:13 And they said to her, “Woman, why are you crying?” She said to them, “Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid Him.”" 
John20:14 When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus." 
John20:15 Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you crying? Whom are you seeking?” Thinking Him to be the gardener, she said to Him, “Sir, if you have carried Him away, tell me where you have laid Him, and I will take Him away.”" 
John20:16 Jesus said to her, “Mary!” She turned and said to Him in Hebrew, “Rabboni!” (which means, Teacher)." 
John20:17 Jesus said to her, “Stop clinging to Me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to My brothers and say to them, ‘I ascend to My Father and your Father, and My God and your God.’”" 
John20:18 Mary Magdalene came, announcing to the disciples, “I have seen the Lord,” and that He had said these things to her." 
John20:19 So while it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and while the doors were shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst and said to them, “Peace be with you.”" 
John20:20 And when He had said this, He showed them both His hands and His side. The disciples then rejoiced when they saw the Lord." 
John20:21 So Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you; as the Father has sent Me, I also send you.”" 
John20:22 And when He had said this, He breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit." 
John20:23 If you forgive the sins of any, their sins have been forgiven them; if you retain the sins of any, they have been retained.”" 
John20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came." 
John20:25 So the other disciples were saying to him, “We have seen the Lord!” But he said to them, “Unless I see in His hands the imprint of the nails, and put my finger into the place of the nails, and put my hand into His side, I will not believe.”" 
John20:26 And after eight days His disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors having been shut, and stood in their midst and said, “Peace be with you.”" 
John20:27 Then He said to Thomas, “Bring your finger here, and see My hands; and bring your hand here and put it into My side; and do not be unbelieving, but believing.”" 
John20:28 Thomas answered and said to Him, “My Lord and my God!”" 
John20:29 Jesus said to him, “Because you have seen Me, have you believed? Blessed are those who did not see, and yet believed.”" 
John20:30 Therefore many other signs Jesus also did in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;" 
John20:31 but these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing you may have life in His name." 
John21:1 After these things Jesus manifested Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and He manifested Himself in this way." 
John21:2 Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of His disciples were together." 
John21:3 Simon Peter said to them, “I am going fishing.” They said to him, “We will also come with you.” They went out and got into the boat; and that night they caught nothing." 
John21:4 But when the day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach; yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus." 
John21:5 So Jesus said to them, “Children, do you have any fish?” They answered Him, “No.”" 
John21:6 And He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find some.” So they cast, and then they were not able to haul it in because of the great number of fish." 
John21:7 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord.” So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on (for he was stripped for work), and cast himself into the sea." 
John21:8 But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away, dragging the net full of fish." 
John21:9 So when they got out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire in place and fish placed on it, and bread." 
John21:10 Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish which you have now caught.”" 
John21:11 Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land, full of large fish, 153; and although there were so many, the net was not torn." 
John21:12 Jesus said to them, “Come, have breakfast.” None of the disciples dared to question Him, “Who are You?” knowing that it was the Lord." 
John21:13 Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the fish likewise." 
John21:14 This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples, after He was raised from the dead." 
John21:15 So when they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of John, do you love Me more than these?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord; You know that I love You.” He said to him, “Tend My lambs.”" 
John21:16 He said to him again a second time, “Simon, son of John, do you love Me?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord; You know that I love You.” He said to him, “Shepherd My sheep.”" 
John21:17 He said to him the third time, “Simon, son of John, do you love Me?” Peter was grieved because He said to him the third time, “Do you love Me?” And he said to Him, “Lord, You know all things; You know that I love You.” Jesus said to him, “Tend My sheep." 
John21:18 Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were younger, you used to gird yourself and walk wherever you wished; but when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will gird you, and bring you where you do not wish to go.”" 
John21:19 Now this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had spoken this, He said to him, “Follow Me!”" 
John21:20 Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them; the one who also had leaned back on His bosom at the supper and said, “Lord, who is the one who betrays You?”" 
John21:21 So Peter seeing him said to Jesus, “Lord, and what about this man?”" 
John21:22 Jesus said to him, “If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me!”" 
John21:23 Therefore this saying went out among the brothers that this disciple would not die; yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but only, “If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you?”" 
John21:24 This is the disciple who is bearing witness to these things and wrote these things, and we know that his witness is true." 
John21:25 And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which if they were written one after the other, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that would be written." 
Acts1:1 The first account, O Theophilus, I composed, about all that Jesus began to do and teach," 
Acts1:2 until the day when He was taken up to heaven, after He had by the Holy Spirit given orders to the apostles whom He had chosen," 
Acts1:3 to whom He also presented Himself alive after His suffering by many convincing proofs, appearing to them over forty days and speaking about the things concerning the kingdom of God." 
Acts1:4 And gathering them together, He commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, “Which,” He said, “you heard of from Me;" 
Acts1:5 for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.”" 
Acts1:5 for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.”" 
Acts1:6 So when they had come together, they were asking Him, saying, “Lord, is it at this time You are restoring the kingdom to Israel?”" 
Acts1:7 But He said to them, “It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has set by His own authority;" 
Acts1:8 but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be My witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the end of the earth.”" 
Acts1:8 but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be My witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the end of the earth.”" 
Acts1:9 And after He had said these things, He was lifted up while they were looking on, and a cloud received Him out of their sight." 
Acts1:10 And as they were gazing intently into the sky while He was going, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them." 
Acts1:11 They also said, “Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking toward heaven? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will come in just the same way as you have watched Him go into heaven.”" 
Acts1:12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day’s journey away." 
Acts1:13 And when they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying; that is, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:13 And when they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying; that is, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:13 And when they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying; that is, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:13 And when they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying; that is, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James." 
Acts1:14 These all with one accord were continually devoting themselves to prayer, along with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and His brothers." 
Acts1:15 And in those days, Peter stood up in the midst of the brothers (a crowd of about 120 persons was there together), and said," 
Acts1:16 “Men, brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit foretold by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus." 
Acts1:17 For he was counted among us and received his share in this ministry.” 
Acts1:18 (Now this man acquired a field with the price of his unrighteousness, and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his intestines gushed out." 
Acts1:19 And it became known to all who were living in Jerusalem; so that in their own language that field was called Hakeldama, that is, Field of Blood.)" 
Acts1:20 “For it is written in the book of Psalms, ‘Let his residence be made desolate, And let no one dwell in it’; and, ‘Let another man take his office.’" 
Acts1:21 Therefore it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us— 
Acts1:22 beginning with the baptism of John until the day that He was taken up from us—one of these must become a witness with us of His resurrection.” 
Acts1:22 beginning with the baptism of John until the day that He was taken up from us—one of these must become a witness with us of His resurrection.” 
Acts1:23 And they put forward two men, Joseph called Barsabbas (who was also called Justus), and Matthias." 
Acts1:24 And they prayed and said, “You, Lord, who know the hearts of all men, show which one of these two You have chosen" 
Acts1:25 to take the place of this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.” 
Acts1:26 And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell to Matthias; and he was added to the eleven apostles." 
Acts2:1 And when the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all together in one place." 
Acts2:2 And suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting." 
Acts2:3 And there appeared to them tongues like fire distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them." 
Acts2:4 And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit was giving them utterance." 
Acts2:5 Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under heaven." 
Acts2:6 And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together, and were bewildered because each one of them was hearing them speak in his own language." 
Acts2:7 So they were astounded and marveling, saying, “Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?" 
Acts2:8 And how is it that we each hear them in our own language in which we were born? 
Acts2:9 Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia," 
Acts2:9 Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia," 
Acts2:10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the district of Libya around Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes," 
Acts2:11 Cretans and Arabs—we hear them in our own tongues speaking of the mighty deeds of God.” 
Acts2:12 And they all continued in astonishment and great perplexity, saying to one another, “What does this mean?”" 
Acts2:13 But others, mocking, were saying, “They are full of new wine.”" 
Acts2:14 But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them: “Men of Judea and all you who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give heed to my words." 
Acts2:14 But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them: “Men of Judea and all you who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give heed to my words." 
Acts2:15 For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day;" 
Acts2:16 but this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel: 
Acts2:17 ‘And it shall be in the last days,’ God says, ‘That I will pour out My Spirit on all mankind; And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, And your young men shall see visions, And your old men shall dream dreams;" 
Acts2:18 Even on My male slaves and female slaves, I will in those days pour out My Spirit And they shall prophesy." 
Acts2:19 And I will put wonders in the sky above And signs on the earth below, Blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke." 
Acts2:20 The sun will be turned into darkness And the moon into blood, Before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes." 
Acts2:21 And it will be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.’ 
Acts2:22 “Men of Israel, listen to these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which God did through Him in your midst, just as you yourselves know—" 
Acts2:23 this Man, delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of lawless men and put Him to death." 
Acts2:24 But God raised Him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for Him to be held in its power." 
Acts2:25 For David says of Him, ‘I saw the Lord continually before me; Because He is at my right hand, so that I will not be shaken." 
Acts2:26 Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue exulted; Moreover my flesh also will live in hope; 
Acts2:27 Because You will not forsake my soul to Hades, Nor give Your Holy One over to see corruption." 
Acts2:28 You have made known to me the ways of life; You will make me full of gladness with Your presence.’ 
Acts2:29 “Men, brothers, I may confidently say to you regarding the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day." 
Acts2:30 And so, because he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn to him with an oath to set one of the fruit of his body on his throne," 
Acts2:31 he looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that He was neither forsaken to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption." 
Acts2:32 This Jesus God raised up again, to which we are all witnesses." 
Acts2:33 Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured out this which you both see and hear." 
Acts2:34 For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says: ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand," 
Acts2:35 Until I put Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.”’ 
Acts2:36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made Him both Lord and Christ—this Jesus whom you crucified.” 
Acts2:37 Now when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, “Men, brothers, what should we do?”" 
Acts2:38 And Peter said to them, “Repent, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins; and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit." 
Acts2:39 For the promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call to Himself.”" 
Acts2:40 And with many other words he solemnly bore witness and kept on exhorting them, saying, “Be saved from this crooked generation!”" 
Acts2:41 So then, those who had received his word were baptized; and that day there were added about three thousand souls." 
Acts2:42 And they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to the prayers." 
Acts2:43 And fear came upon every soul; and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. 
Acts2:44 And all those who had believed were together and had all things in common; 
Acts2:45 and they began selling their property and possessions and were dividing them up with all, as anyone might have need." 
Acts2:46 And daily devoting themselves with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they were taking their meals together with gladness and sincerity of heart," 
Acts2:47 praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord was adding to their number daily those who were being saved. 
Acts3:1 Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the ninth hour, the hour of prayer." 
Acts3:1 Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the ninth hour, the hour of prayer." 
Acts3:2 And a man who had been lame from his mother’s womb was being carried, whom they used to set down daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, in order to beg alms of those who were entering the temple." 
Acts3:3 When he saw Peter and John about to go into the temple, he began asking to receive alms." 
Acts3:3 When he saw Peter and John about to go into the temple, he began asking to receive alms." 
Acts3:4 But when Peter, along with John, fixed his gaze on him, he said, “Look at us!”" 
Acts3:4 But when Peter, along with John, fixed his gaze on him, he said, “Look at us!”" 
Acts3:5 And he began to give them his attention, expecting to receive something from them." 
Acts3:6 But Peter said, “I do not possess silver and gold, but what I do have I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene—walk!”" 
Acts3:7 And seizing him by the right hand, he raised him up; and immediately his feet and his ankles were strengthened." 
Acts3:8 And leaping up, he stood upright and began to walk; and he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God." 
Acts3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God; 
Acts3:10 and they were recognizing him, that he was the one who used to sit at the Beautiful Gate of the temple to beg alms, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him." 
Acts3:11 And while he was clinging to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them at the portico called Solomon’s, full of wonder." 
Acts3:11 And while he was clinging to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them at the portico called Solomon’s, full of wonder." 
Acts3:12 But when Peter saw this, he replied to the people, “Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this, or why do you gaze at us, as if by our own power or piety we had made him walk?" 
Acts3:13 The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you delivered and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release Him." 
Acts3:14 But you denied the Holy and Righteous One and asked for a murderer to be granted to you," 
Acts3:15 but put to death the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead, a fact to which we are witnesses." 
Acts3:16 And on the basis of faith in His name, it is the name of Jesus which has strengthened this man whom you see and know; and the faith which is through Him has given him this perfect health in the presence of you all." 
Acts3:17 “And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, just as your rulers did also." 
Acts3:18 But the things which God announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets, that His Christ would suffer, He has thus fulfilled." 
Acts3:19 Therefore repent and return, so that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord;" 
Acts3:20 and that He may send Jesus, the Christ appointed for you," 
Acts3:21 whom heaven must receive until the period of restoration of all things about which God spoke by the mouth of His holy prophets from ancient time. 
Acts3:22 Moses said, ‘The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers; to Him you shall listen to everything He says to you." 
Acts3:23 And it will be that every soul that does not heed that prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.’ 
Acts3:24 And likewise, all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and his successors onward, also proclaimed these days." 
Acts3:25 It is you who are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘And in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed.’" 
Acts3:26 For you first, God raised up His Servant and sent Him to bless you by turning every one of you from your wicked ways.”" 
Acts4:1 Now as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees came up to them," 
Acts4:2 being greatly agitated because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
Acts4:3 And they laid hands on them and put them in jail until the next day, for it was already evening." 
Acts4:4 But many of those who had heard the message believed, and the number of the men came to be about five thousand." 
Acts4:5 Now it happened that on the next day, their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem;" 
Acts4:6 and Annas the high priest was there, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of high-priestly descent." 
Acts4:6 and Annas the high priest was there, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of high-priestly descent." 
Acts4:7 And when they had placed them in their midst, they began to inquire, “By what power, or in what name, have you done this?”" 
Acts4:8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, “Rulers and elders of the people," 
Acts4:9 if we are being examined today for a good deed done to a sick man, as to how this man has been saved from his sickness," 
Acts4:10 let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead—by this name this man stands here before you in good health." 
Acts4:11 He is the stone which was rejected by you, the builders, but which became the chief corner stone." 
Acts4:12 And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved.”" 
Acts4:13 Now as they observed the confidence of Peter and John and comprehended that they were uneducated and ordinary men, they were marveling, and began to recognize them as having been with Jesus." 
Acts4:13 Now as they observed the confidence of Peter and John and comprehended that they were uneducated and ordinary men, they were marveling, and began to recognize them as having been with Jesus." 
Acts4:14 And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say in reply." 
Acts4:15 But when they had ordered them to leave the Sanhedrin, they began to confer with one another," 
Acts4:16 saying, “What should we do with these men? For the fact that a noteworthy sign has happened through them is apparent to all who live in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it." 
Acts4:17 But lest it spread any further among the people, let us warn them to speak no longer to any man in this name.”" 
Acts4:18 And when they had summoned them, they commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus." 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John answered and said to them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to hear you rather than God, you be the judge;" 
Acts4:19 But Peter and John answered and said to them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to hear you rather than God, you be the judge;" 
Acts4:20 for we cannot stop speaking about what we have seen and heard.” 
Acts4:21 And when they had threatened them further, they let them go (finding no basis on which to punish them) on account of the people, because they were all glorifying God for what had happened;" 
Acts4:22 for the man was more than forty years old on whom this sign of healing had occurred. 
Acts4:23 So when they were released, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them." 
Acts4:24 And when they heard this, they lifted their voices to God with one accord and said, “O Master, it is You who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them," 
Acts4:25 who by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David Your servant, said, ‘Why did the Gentiles rage, And the peoples devise vain things?" 
Acts4:26 The kings of the earth took their stand, And the rulers were gathered together Against the Lord and against His Christ.’" 
Acts4:27 For truly in this city there were gathered together against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel," 
Acts4:28 to do whatever Your hand and Your purpose predestined to occur. 
Acts4:29 And now, Lord, take note of their threats, and grant that Your slaves may speak Your word with all confidence," 
Acts4:30 while You extend Your hand to heal, and signs and wonders happen through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus.”" 
Acts4:31 And when they had prayed earnestly, the place where they had gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of God with confidence." 
Acts4:32 And the congregation of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and not one was saying that any of his possessions was his own, but, for them, everything was common." 
Acts4:33 And with great power the apostles were bearing witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all." 
Acts4:34 For there was not a needy person among them, for all who were owners of land or houses would sell them and bring the proceeds of the sales" 
Acts4:35 and lay them at the apostles’ feet, and they would be distributed to each as any had need." 
Acts4:36 Now Joseph, a Levite of Cyprian birth, who was also called Barnabas by the apostles (which translated means Son of Encouragement)," 
Acts4:37 and who owned a field, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles’ feet." 
Acts5:1 But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property," 
Acts5:2 and kept back some of the price for himself, with his wife’s full knowledge. And bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostles’ feet." 
Acts5:3 But Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land?" 
Acts5:4 While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why is it that you laid this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.”" 
Acts5:5 And as he heard these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last; and great fear came over all who heard." 
Acts5:6 And the young men rose up and wrapped him up, and after carrying him out, they buried him." 
Acts5:7 Now there was an interval of about three hours, and his wife came in, not knowing what had happened." 
Acts5:8 And Peter responded to her, “Tell me whether you were paid this much for the land?” And she said, “Yes, that much.”" 
Acts5:9 Then Peter said to her, “Why is it that you have agreed together to put the Spirit of the Lord to the test? Behold, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out as well.”" 
Acts5:10 And immediately she fell at his feet and breathed her last, and the young men came in and found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband." 
Acts5:11 And great fear came over the whole church, and over all who heard these things." 
Acts5:12 Now at the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders were happening among the people, and they were all with one accord in Solomon’s Portico." 
Acts5:13 But none of the rest dared to associate with them; however, the people were holding them in high esteem." 
Acts5:14 And more than ever believers in the Lord were added to their number, multitudes of men and women," 
Acts5:15 to such an extent that they even carried the sick out into the streets and laid them on cots and mats, so that when Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on any one of them." 
Acts5:16 Also the multitude from the cities in the vicinity of Jerusalem were coming together, bringing people who were sick or afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all being healed." 
Acts5:17 But the high priest rose up and those with him (that is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with jealousy." 
Acts5:18 And they laid hands on the apostles and put them in a public jail. 
Acts5:19 But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, and taking them out, he said," 
Acts5:20 “Go, stand and speak to the people in the temple the whole message of this Life.”" 
Acts5:21 Upon hearing this, they entered into the temple about daybreak and began to teach. Now when the high priest and those with him came, they called the Sanhedrin together, even all the Council of the sons of Israel, and sent orders to the jailhouse for them to be brought." 
Acts5:22 But the officers who came did not find them in the prison, and they returned and reported back," 
Acts5:23 saying, “We found the jailhouse locked quite securely and the guards standing at the doors, but we opened it and found no one inside.”" 
Acts5:24 Now when the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about them as to what would come of this." 
Acts5:25 But someone came and reported to them, “The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people!”" 
Acts5:26 Then the captain went along with the officers and proceeded to bring them back without violence (for they were afraid of the people, that they might be stoned)." 
Acts5:27 And when they had brought them, they stood them before the Sanhedrin. And the high priest questioned them," 
Acts5:28 saying, “We strictly commanded you not to continue teaching in this name, and yet, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man’s blood upon us.”" 
Acts5:29 But Peter and the apostles answered and said, “We must obey God rather than men." 
Acts5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you put to death by hanging Him on a tree." 
Acts5:31 This One God exalted to His right hand as a Leader and a Savior, to grant repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins." 
Acts5:32 And we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God gave to those who obey Him.”" 
Acts5:33 But when they heard this, they became furious and intended to kill them." 
Acts5:34 But a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the Law, respected by all the people, stood up in the Sanhedrin and gave orders to put the men outside for a short time." 
Acts5:35 And he said to them, “Men of Israel, take care what you propose to do with these men." 
Acts5:36 For some time ago Theudas rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a group of about four hundred men joined up with him. But he was killed, and all who were following him were dispersed and came to nothing." 
Acts5:37 After this man, Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away people after him. He too perished, and all those who were following him were scattered." 
Acts5:38 So in the present case, I also say to you, stay away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or action is of men, it will be overthrown;" 
Acts5:39 but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them; or you may even be found fighting against God.”" 
Acts5:40 So they followed his advice. And after calling the apostles in and beating them, they commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and then released them." 
Acts5:41 So they went on their way from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer shame for the Name." 
Acts5:42 And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and proclaiming the good news that Jesus is the Christ." 
Acts6:1 Now in those days, while the disciples were multiplying in number, there was grumbling from the Hellenists against the Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food." 
Acts6:1 Now in those days, while the disciples were multiplying in number, there was grumbling from the Hellenists against the Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food." 
Acts6:2 So the twelve summoned the congregation of the disciples and said, “It is not pleasing to God for us to neglect the word of God in order to serve tables." 
Acts6:3 Therefore, brothers, select from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may put in charge of this need." 
Acts6:4 But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the service of the word.” 
Acts6:5 And this word pleased the whole congregation, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte from Antioch." 
Acts6:6 And these they stood before the apostles, and after praying, they laid their hands on them." 
Acts6:7 And the word of God kept on spreading, and the number of the disciples continued to multiply greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith." 
Acts6:8 And Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people." 
Acts6:9 But some men from what was called the Synagogue of the Freedmen, including both Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and were arguing with Stephen." 
Acts6:10 But they were unable to oppose the wisdom and the Spirit by whom he was speaking. 
Acts6:11 Then they secretly induced men to say, “We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God.”" 
Acts6:12 And they stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and they came up to him, dragged him away, and brought him to the Sanhedrin." 
Acts6:13 And they put forward false witnesses who said, “This man never ceases speaking words against this holy place and the Law;" 
Acts6:14 for we have heard him say that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place and alter the customs which Moses handed down to us.” 
Acts6:15 And fixing their gaze on him, all who were sitting in the Sanhedrin saw his face like the face of an angel." 
Acts7:1 And the high priest said, “Are these things so?”" 
Acts7:2 And he said, “Hear me, brothers and fathers! The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran," 
Acts7:3 and said to him, ‘Leave your country and your relatives, and come into the land that I will show you.’" 
Acts7:4 Then he left the land of the Chaldeans and settled in Haran. From there, after his father died, God had him move to this country in which you are now living." 
Acts7:5 But He gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot of ground, and He promised that He would give it to him as a possession, and to his seed after him, even when he had no child." 
Acts7:6 But God spoke in this way, that his seed would be sojourners in a foreign land, and that they would be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years." 
Acts7:7 ‘And I Myself will judge the nation to which they will be enslaved,’ said God, ‘and after that they will come out and serve Me in this place.’" 
Acts7:8 And He gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham was the father of Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac was the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs." 
Acts7:9 “And the patriarchs, becoming jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt. Yet God was with him," 
Acts7:10 and rescued him from all his afflictions, and granted him favor and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he appointed him governor over Egypt and all his household." 
Acts7:11 “Now a famine came over all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction with it, and our fathers could find no food." 
Acts7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our fathers there the first time." 
Acts7:13 And on the second visit Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Joseph’s family was disclosed to Pharaoh." 
Acts7:14 Then Joseph sent word and invited Jacob his father and all his relatives to come to him, seventy-five persons in all." 
Acts7:15 And Jacob went down to Egypt and there he and our fathers died. 
Acts7:16 And from there they were removed to Shechem and placed in the tomb which Abraham had purchased for a sum of money from the sons of Hamor in Shechem. 
Acts7:17 “But as the time of the promise was drawing near which God had assured to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt," 
Acts7:18 until another king arose over Egypt who did not know about Joseph. 
Acts7:19 It was he who deceitfully took advantage of our family and mistreated our fathers to set their infants outside so that they would not survive. 
Acts7:20 It was at this time that Moses was born, and he was lovely in the sight of God, and he was nurtured three months in his father’s home." 
Acts7:21 And after he had been set outside, Pharaoh’s daughter took him away and nurtured him as her own son." 
Acts7:22 And Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was powerful in words and deeds." 
Acts7:23 But when he was approaching the age of forty, it entered his heart to visit his brothers, the sons of Israel." 
Acts7:24 And when he saw one of them being treated unjustly, he defended him and took justice for the oppressed by striking down the Egyptian." 
Acts7:25 And he supposed that his brothers understood that God was granting them salvation through him, but they did not understand." 
Acts7:26 On the following day he appeared to them as they were fighting together, and he tried to reconcile them in peace, saying, ‘Men, you are brothers, why are you treating one another unjustly?’" 
Acts7:27 But the one who was treating his neighbor unjustly pushed him away, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and judge over us?" 
Acts7:28 Do you intend to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?’ 
Acts7:29 At this remark, Moses fled and became a sojourner in the land of Midian, where he was the father of two sons." 
Acts7:30 “And after forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the flame of a burning bush." 
Acts7:31 When Moses saw it, he was marveling at the sight; and as he approached to look more closely, there came the voice of the Lord:" 
Acts7:32 ‘I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob.’ Moses trembled with fear and would not dare to look." 
Acts7:33 But the Lord said to him, ‘Remove the sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground." 
Acts7:34 I have surely seen the oppression of My people in Egypt and have heard their groans, and I have come down to deliver them; come now, and I will send you to Egypt.’" 
Acts7:35 “This Moses whom they disowned, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and a judge?’ is the one whom God sent to be both a ruler and a deliverer with the help of the angel who appeared to him in the bush." 
Acts7:36 This man led them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt and in the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years." 
Acts7:37 This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, ‘God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers.’" 
Acts7:38 This is the one who, in the congregation in the wilderness, was with the angel who was speaking to him on Mount Sinai and with our fathers; the one who received living oracles to pass on to you." 
Acts7:39 Our fathers were unwilling to be obedient to him, but rejected him and in their hearts turned back to Egypt," 
Acts7:40 saying to Aaron, ‘Make for us gods who will go before us; for this Moses who led us out of the land of Egypt—we do not know what has become of him.’" 
Acts7:41 At that time they made a calf and brought a sacrifice to the idol, and were rejoicing in the works of their hands." 
Acts7:42 But God turned away and delivered them up to serve the host of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets, ‘Did you present Me with slain beasts and sacrifices forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?" 
Acts7:43 You also took along the tabernacle of Moloch and the star of the god Rompha, the images which you made to worship. I also will remove you beyond Babylon.’" 
Acts7:44 “Our fathers had the tabernacle of testimony in the wilderness, just as He, who spoke to Moses, directed him to make it according to the pattern which he had seen." 
Acts7:45 And having received it in their turn, our fathers brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations whom God drove out before our fathers, until the time of David." 
Acts7:46 David found favor in the sight of God, and asked that he might find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob." 
Acts7:47 But Solomon built a house for Him. 
Acts7:48 However, the Most High does not dwell in houses made by human hands, as the prophet says:" 
Acts7:49 ‘Heaven is My throne, And earth is the footstool of My feet. What kind of house will you build for Me?’ says the Lord, ‘Or what place is there for My rest?" 
Acts7:50 Was it not My hand which made all these things?’ 
Acts7:51 “You men—stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears—are always resisting the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you." 
Acts7:52 And which one of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? They killed those who had previously announced the coming of the Righteous One, whose betrayers and murderers you have now become;" 
Acts7:53 you who received the Law as ordained by angels, and yet did not observe it.”" 
Acts7:54 Now when they heard this, they became furious in their hearts, and they began gnashing their teeth at him." 
Acts7:55 But being full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed intently into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God;" 
Acts7:56 and he said, “Behold, I see the heavens opened up and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.”" 
Acts7:57 But crying out with a loud voice, they covered their ears and rushed at him with one accord." 
Acts7:58 And when they had driven him out of the city, they began stoning him; and the witnesses laid aside their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul." 
Acts7:59 They went on stoning Stephen as he was calling out and saying, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!”" 
Acts7:60 Then falling on his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, “Lord, do not hold this sin against them!” And having said this, he fell asleep." 
Acts8:1 Now Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death. And on that day a great persecution began against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles." 
Acts8:1 Now Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death. And on that day a great persecution began against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles." 
Acts8:2 And some devout men buried Stephen and made loud lamentation over him. 
Acts8:3 But Saul began ravaging the church, entering house after house, and dragging off men and women, he was delivering them into prison." 
Acts8:4 Therefore, those who had been scattered went about, proclaiming the good news of the word." 
Acts8:5 Now Philip went down to the city of Samaria and began preaching Christ to them. 
Acts8:6 And the crowds with one accord were giving attention to what was being said by Philip, as they heard and saw the signs which he was doing." 
Acts8:7 For in the case of many who had unclean spirits, they were coming out of them shouting with a loud voice; and many who had been paralyzed and lame were healed." 
Acts8:8 So there was great joy in that city. 
Acts8:9 Now there was a man named Simon, who formerly was practicing magic in the city and astounding the people of Samaria, claiming to be someone great;" 
Acts8:10 and they all, from smallest to greatest, were giving attention to him, saying, “This man is what is called the Great Power of God.”" 
Acts8:11 And they were giving him attention because he had for a long time astounded them with his magic arts. 
Acts8:12 But when they believed Philip proclaiming the good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were being baptized, both men and women." 
Acts8:13 Even Simon himself believed; and after being baptized, he continued on with Philip, and as he observed signs and great miracles taking place, he was constantly astounded." 
Acts8:14 Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent them Peter and John," 
Acts8:14 Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent them Peter and John," 
Acts8:15 who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. 
Acts8:16 For He had not yet fallen upon any of them; they had simply been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
Acts8:17 Then they began laying their hands on them, and they were receiving the Holy Spirit." 
Acts8:18 Now when Simon saw that the Spirit had been bestowed through the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he offered them money," 
Acts8:19 saying, “Give this authority to me as well, so that everyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts8:20 But Peter said to him, “May your silver perish with you, because you supposed you could obtain the gift of God with money!" 
Acts8:21 You have no part or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God." 
Acts8:22 Therefore repent of this wickedness of yours, and pray earnestly to the Lord that, if possible, the intention of your heart may be forgiven you." 
Acts8:23 For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bondage of unrighteousness.” 
Acts8:24 But Simon answered and said, “Pray earnestly to the Lord for me yourselves, so that nothing of what you have said may come upon me.”" 
Acts8:25 So, when they had solemnly borne witness and spoken the word of the Lord, they started back to Jerusalem, and were proclaiming the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans." 
Acts8:26 But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip saying, “Rise up and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza.” (This is a desert road.)" 
Acts8:27 So he rose up and went; and behold, there was an Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure; and he had come to Jerusalem to worship," 
Acts8:28 and he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah." 
Acts8:29 Then the Spirit said to Philip, “Go over and join this chariot.”" 
Acts8:30 And Philip ran up and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, “Do you understand what you are reading?”" 
Acts8:31 And he said, “Well, how could I, unless someone guides me?” And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him." 
Acts8:32 Now the passage of Scripture which he was reading was this: “As a sheep is led to slaughter; And as a lamb before its shearer is silent, So He does not open His mouth." 
Acts8:33 In humiliation His judgment was taken away; Who will recount His generation? For His life is removed from the earth.” 
Acts8:34 And the eunuch answered Philip and said, “I ask you earnestly, of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself or of someone else?”" 
Acts8:35 Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture he proclaimed the good news about Jesus to him." 
Acts8:36 And as they went along the road they came to some water; and the eunuch said, “Look! Water! What prevents me from being baptized?”" 
Acts8:37 [And Philip said, “If you believe with all your heart, you may.” And he answered and said, “I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.”]" 
Acts8:38 And he ordered the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip as well as the eunuch, and he baptized him." 
Acts8:39 When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away, and the eunuch no longer saw him, but went on his way rejoicing." 
Acts8:40 But Philip found himself at Azotus, and as he passed through he kept proclaiming the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea." 
Acts9:1 Now Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest," 
Acts9:2 and asked for letters from him to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem." 
Acts9:3 And as he was traveling, it happened that when he was approaching Damascus, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him;" 
Acts9:4 and falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?”" 
Acts9:5 And he said, “Who are You, Lord?” And He said, “I am Jesus whom you are persecuting," 
Acts9:6 but rise up and enter the city, and it will be told you what you must do.”" 
Acts9:7 And the men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one." 
Acts9:8 And Saul got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. Leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus." 
Acts9:9 And he was three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank." 
Acts9:10 Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and the Lord said to him in a vision, “Ananias.” And he said, “Here I am, Lord.”" 
Acts9:11 And the Lord said to him, “Rise up and go to the street called Straight, and inquire at the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying," 
Acts9:12 and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him, so that he might regain his sight.”" 
Acts9:13 But Ananias answered, “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he did to Your saints at Jerusalem." 
Acts9:14 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on Your name.” 
Acts9:15 But the Lord said to him, “Go, for he is a chosen instrument of Mine, to bear My name before the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel;" 
Acts9:16 for I will show him how much he must suffer for My name.” 
Acts9:17 So Ananias departed and entered the house. And he laid his hands on him and said, “Brother Saul, the Lord sent me—that is Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you were coming—so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.”" 
Acts9:18 And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he regained his sight, and he rose up and was baptized;" 
Acts9:19 and he took food and was strengthened. Saul Begins to Preach ChristNow for several days he was with the disciples who were at Damascus," 
Acts9:20 and immediately he began to proclaim Jesus in the synagogues, saying, “He is the Son of God.”" 
Acts9:21 And all those hearing him continued to be astounded, and were saying, “Is this not the one who in Jerusalem destroyed those that called on this name, and who had come here for the purpose of bringing them bound before the chief priests?”" 
Acts9:22 But Saul kept increasing in strength and confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus by proving that this One is the Christ. 
Acts9:23 And when many days had elapsed, the Jews plotted together to put him to death," 
Acts9:24 but their plot became known to Saul. They were also watching the gates day and night so that they might put him to death; 
Acts9:25 but his disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a large basket." 
Acts9:26 And when he came to Jerusalem, he was trying to associate with the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple." 
Acts9:27 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and recounted to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had talked to him, and how at Damascus he had spoken out boldly in the name of Jesus." 
Acts9:28 So he was with them, moving about freely in Jerusalem, speaking out boldly in the name of the Lord." 
Acts9:29 And he was talking and arguing with the Hellenistic Jews, but they were attempting to put him to death." 
Acts9:30 But when the brothers learned of it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus." 
Acts9:31 So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria was having peace, being built up. And going on in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it continued to multiply." 
Acts9:31 So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria was having peace, being built up. And going on in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it continued to multiply." 
Acts9:32 Now it happened that as Peter was traveling through all those regions, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda." 
Acts9:33 And there he found a man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden eight years, for he was paralyzed." 
Acts9:34 And Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Rise up and make your bed.” Immediately he rose up." 
Acts9:35 And all who lived at Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord." 
Acts9:36 Now in Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha (which translated is called Dorcas). This woman was full of good works and charity which she continually did. 
Acts9:37 And it happened at that time that she fell sick and died; and when they had washed her body, they laid it in an upper room." 
Acts9:38 Now since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, having heard that Peter was there, sent two men to him, pleading with him, “Do not delay in coming to us.”" 
Acts9:39 So Peter arose and went with them. When he arrived, they brought him into the upper room; and all the widows stood beside him, crying and showing all the tunics and garments that Dorcas used to make while she was with them." 
Acts9:40 But Peter sent them all out and knelt down and prayed, and turning to the body, he said, “Tabitha, arise.” And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up." 
Acts9:41 And he gave her his hand and raised her up. And calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive." 
Acts9:42 And it became known all over Joppa, and many believed in the Lord." 
Acts9:43 And it happened that he stayed many days in Joppa with a tanner named Simon. 
Acts10:1 Now there was a man at Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian cohort," 
Acts10:2 a devout man and one who feared God with all his household, and gave many alms to the people and prayed to God continually." 
Acts10:3 About the ninth hour of the day he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God who had come in and said to him, “Cornelius!”" 
Acts10:4 And looking intently on him and becoming afraid, he said, “What is it, Lord?” And he said to him, “Your prayers and alms have ascended as a memorial before God." 
Acts10:5 Now send some men to Joppa and summon a man named Simon, who is also called Peter;" 
Acts10:6 he is lodging with a tanner named Simon, whose house is by the sea.”" 
Acts10:7 And when the angel who was speaking to him had left, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier of those who were his personal attendants," 
Acts10:8 and after he explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa." 
Acts10:9 And on the next day, as they were on their way and approaching the city, Peter went up on the housetop about the sixth hour to pray." 
Acts10:10 But he became hungry and was desiring to eat. And while they were making preparations, he fell into a trance" 
Acts10:11 and saw heaven opened up, and an object like a great sheet coming down, lowered by four corners to the ground," 
Acts10:12 and there were in it all kinds of four-footed animals and crawling creatures of the earth and birds of the sky. 
Acts10:13 And a voice came to him, “Rise up, Peter, slaughter and eat!”" 
Acts10:14 But Peter said, “By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything defiled and unclean.”" 
Acts10:15 Again a voice came to him a second time, “What God has cleansed, no longer consider defiled.”" 
Acts10:16 And this happened three times and immediately the object was taken up into heaven. 
Acts10:17 Now while Peter was greatly perplexed in mind as to what the vision which he had seen might be, behold, the men who had been sent by Cornelius, having asked directions for Simon’s house, appeared at the gate;" 
Acts10:18 and calling out, they were asking whether Simon, who was also called Peter, was lodging there." 
Acts10:19 And while Peter was reflecting on the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Behold, three men are looking for you." 
Acts10:20 But rise up, go down and accompany them without taking issue at all, for I have sent them Myself.”" 
Acts10:21 And Peter went down to the men and said, “Behold, I am the one you are looking for; what is the reason for which you have come?”" 
Acts10:22 And they said, “Cornelius, a centurion, a righteous and God-fearing man well spoken of by the entire nation of the Jews, was directed by a holy angel to summon you to his house and hear a message from you.”" 
Acts10:23 So he invited them in and gave them lodging. Peter at CaesareaAnd on the next day he rose up and went away with them, and some of the brothers from Joppa went with him." 
Acts10:24 And on the following day he entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was waiting for them and had called together his relatives and close friends. 
Acts10:25 And when Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and fell at his feet and worshiped him." 
Acts10:26 But Peter raised him up, saying, “Stand up; I too am just a man.”" 
Acts10:27 As he talked with him, he entered and found many people assembled." 
Acts10:28 And he said to them, “You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a man who is a Jew to associate with a foreigner or to visit him; and yet God has shown me that I should not call any man defiled or unclean." 
Acts10:29 That is why I came without even raising any objection when I was summoned. So I ask for what reason you have summoned me.” 
Acts10:30 And Cornelius said, “Four days ago to this hour, I was praying in my house during the ninth hour; and behold, a man stood before me in shining garments," 
Acts10:31 and he said, ‘Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God." 
Acts10:32 Therefore send to Joppa and invite Simon, who is also called Peter, to come to you; he is lodging at the house of Simon the tanner by the sea.’" 
Acts10:33 So I sent for you immediately, and you have been kind enough to come. Now then, we are all here present before God to hear all that you have been ordered by the Lord.”" 
Acts10:34 And opening his mouth, Peter said: “I most truly comprehend now that God is not one to show partiality," 
Acts10:35 but in every nation the one who fears Him and does righteousness is welcome to Him. 
Acts10:36 As for the word which He sent to the sons of Israel, proclaiming the good news of peace through Jesus Christ—He is Lord of all—" 
Acts10:37 you yourselves know the thing which happened throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee, after the baptism which John proclaimed." 
Acts10:37 you yourselves know the thing which happened throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee, after the baptism which John proclaimed." 
Acts10:37 you yourselves know the thing which happened throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee, after the baptism which John proclaimed." 
Acts10:38 You know of Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him." 
Acts10:39 And we are witnesses of all the things He did both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They also put Him to death by hanging Him on a tree. 
Acts10:40 God raised Him up on the third day and granted that He appear," 
Acts10:41 not to all the people, but to witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God, that is, to us who ate and drank with Him after He arose from the dead." 
Acts10:42 And He commanded us to preach to the people, and solemnly to bear witness that this is the One who has been designated by God as Judge of the living and the dead." 
Acts10:43 Of Him all the prophets bear witness that through His name everyone who believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins.” 
Acts10:44 While Peter was still speaking these things, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who were listening to the word." 
Acts10:45 And all the circumcised believers who came with Peter were astounded that the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also. 
Acts10:46 For they were hearing them speaking with tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter answered," 
Acts10:47 “Can anyone refuse water for these to be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we did?” 
Acts10:48 And he ordered them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for a few days. 
Acts11:1 Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 
Acts11:1 Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 
Acts11:2 And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, those who were circumcised took issue with him," 
Acts11:3 saying, “You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them.”" 
Acts11:4 But Peter began speaking and proceeded to explain to them in orderly sequence, saying," 
Acts11:5 “I was in the city of Joppa praying; and in a trance I saw a vision, an object coming down like a great sheet lowered by four corners from heaven, and it came right down to me," 
Acts11:6 and when looking closely at it, I was observing it and saw the four-footed animals of the earth and the wild beasts and the crawling creatures and the birds of the sky." 
Acts11:7 And I also heard a voice saying to me, ‘Rise up, Peter; slaughter and eat.’" 
Acts11:8 But I said, ‘By no means, Lord, for nothing defiled or unclean has ever entered my mouth.’" 
Acts11:9 But a voice from heaven answered a second time, ‘What God has cleansed, no longer consider defiled.’" 
Acts11:10 And this happened three times, and everything was drawn back up into heaven." 
Acts11:11 And behold, immediately three men appeared at the house in which we were, having been sent to me from Caesarea." 
Acts11:12 And the Spirit told me to go with them without taking issue at all. These six brothers also went with me and we entered the man’s house. 
Acts11:13 And he reported to us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, and saying, ‘Send to Joppa and summon Simon, who is also called Peter;" 
Acts11:14 and he will speak words to you by which you will be saved, you and all your household.’" 
Acts11:15 And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them just as He did upon us at the beginning." 
Acts11:16 And I remembered the word of the Lord, how He used to say, ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts11:16 And I remembered the word of the Lord, how He used to say, ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’" 
Acts11:17 Therefore if God gave to them the same gift as He gave to us also after believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could prevent God’s way?”" 
Acts11:18 And when they heard this, they quieted down and glorified God, saying, “Well then, God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance that leads to life.”" 
Acts11:19 So then those who were scattered because of the persecution that occurred in connection with Stephen made their way to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except to Jews alone." 
Acts11:20 But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks also, proclaiming the good news of the Lord Jesus." 
Acts11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number who believed turned to the Lord." 
Acts11:22 Now the news about them reached the ears of the church at Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas off to Antioch," 
Acts11:23 who, when he arrived and saw the grace of God, rejoiced and began to encourage them all with a purposeful heart to remain true to the Lord;" 
Acts11:24 for he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a considerable crowd was brought to the Lord." 
Acts11:25 And he left for Tarsus to search for Saul; 
Acts11:26 and when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it happened that for an entire year they met with the church and taught a considerable crowd. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch." 
Acts11:27 Now in those days, some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch." 
Acts11:28 And one of them named Agabus stood up and indicated by the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine all over the world. And this took place in the reign of Claudius. 
Acts11:29 And as any of the disciples had means, each of them determined to send a contribution for the service of the brothers living in Judea." 
Acts11:29 And as any of the disciples had means, each of them determined to send a contribution for the service of the brothers living in Judea." 
Acts11:30 And this they did, sending it in charge of Barnabas and Saul to the elders." 
Acts12:1 Now about that time Herod the king laid hands on some who belonged to the church in order to harm them. 
Acts12:2 And he had James the brother of John put to death with a sword. 
Acts12:2 And he had James the brother of John put to death with a sword. 
Acts12:2 And he had James the brother of John put to death with a sword. 
Acts12:3 And when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. Now it was during the days of Unleavened Bread." 
Acts12:4 When he had seized him, he put him in prison, delivering him to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out before the people." 
Acts12:5 So Peter was kept in the prison, but prayer for him was being made fervently by the church to God." 
Acts12:6 Now on the very night when Herod was about to bring him forward, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and guards in front of the door were watching over the prison." 
Acts12:7 And behold, an angel of the Lord suddenly appeared and a light shone in the cell; and he struck Peter’s side and woke him up, saying, “Rise up quickly.” And his chains fell off his hands." 
Acts12:8 And the angel said to him, “Gird yourself and put on your sandals.” And he did so. And he said to him, “Wrap your garment around yourself and follow me.”" 
Acts12:9 And he went out and continued to follow, and he did not know that what was being done by the angel was real, but was thinking he was seeing a vision." 
Acts12:10 And when they had passed the first and second guard posts, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city, which opened for them by itself; and they went out and went along one street, and immediately the angel departed from him." 
Acts12:11 When Peter came to himself, he said, “Now truly I know that the Lord has sent His angel and rescued me from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were expecting.”" 
Acts12:12 And when he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John who was also called Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying." 
Acts12:12 And when he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John who was also called Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying." 
Acts12:12 And when he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John who was also called Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying." 
Acts12:13 And when he knocked at the door of the gate, a servant-girl named Rhoda came to answer." 
Acts12:14 And when she recognized Peter’s voice, because of her joy she did not open the gate. But she ran in and reported that Peter was standing in front of the gate." 
Acts12:15 And they said to her, “You are out of your mind!” But she kept insisting that it was so. They kept saying, “It is his angel.”" 
Acts12:16 But Peter continued knocking, and when they opened the door, they saw him and were astounded." 
Acts12:17 But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he recounted to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. And he said, “Report these things to James and the brothers.” Then he left and went to another place." 
Acts12:17 But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he recounted to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. And he said, “Report these things to James and the brothers.” Then he left and went to another place." 
Acts12:18 Now when day came, there was no small disturbance among the soldiers as to what had become of Peter." 
Acts12:19 And when Herod had searched for him and had not found him, he examined the guards and ordered that they be led away to execution. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and was spending time there." 
Acts12:19 And when Herod had searched for him and had not found him, he examined the guards and ordered that they be led away to execution. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and was spending time there." 
Acts12:20 Now he was very angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon; and with one accord they came to him, and having won over Blastus the king’s chamberlain, they were asking for peace, because their country was fed by the king’s country." 
Acts12:21 And on an appointed day Herod, having put on his royal apparel and sitting on the judgment seat, began delivering an address to them." 
Acts12:22 And the assembly kept crying out, “The voice of a god and not of a man!”" 
Acts12:23 And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him because he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and breathed his last." 
Acts12:24 But the word of the Lord continued to grow and to be multiplied. 
Acts12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, fulfilling their ministry, taking along with them John, who was also called Mark." 
Acts12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, fulfilling their ministry, taking along with them John, who was also called Mark." 
Acts12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, fulfilling their ministry, taking along with them John, who was also called Mark." 
Acts13:1 Now there were at Antioch, in the church that was there, prophets and teachers: Barnabas, and Simeon who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen who had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul." 
Acts13:2 And while they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, “Set apart for Me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.”" 
Acts13:3 Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away." 
Acts13:4 So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia and from there they sailed to Cyprus." 
Acts13:5 And when they reached Salamis, they began to proclaim the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews, and they also had John as their helper." 
Acts13:5 And when they reached Salamis, they began to proclaim the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews, and they also had John as their helper." 
Acts13:6 And when they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a magician, a Jewish false prophet whose name was Bar-Jesus," 
Acts13:7 who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God." 
Acts13:8 But Elymas the magician (for so his name is translated) was opposing them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith." 
Acts13:9 But Saul, who was also known as Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixed his gaze on him," 
Acts13:10 and said, “You who are full of all deceit and fraud, you son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease to make crooked the straight ways of the Lord?" 
Acts13:11 Now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind and not see the sun for a time.” And immediately a mist and a darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking those who would lead him by the hand." 
Acts13:12 Then the proconsul believed when he saw what had happened, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord." 
Acts13:13 Now after Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia, but John left them and returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:13 Now after Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia, but John left them and returned to Jerusalem." 
Acts13:14 But going on from Perga, they arrived at Pisidian Antioch. And on the Sabbath day, they went into the synagogue and sat down." 
Acts13:15 And after the reading of the Law and the Prophets the synagogue officials sent to them, saying, “Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it.”" 
Acts13:16 So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said, “Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen:" 
Acts13:17 The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and lifted up the people during their stay in the land of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm He led them out from it." 
Acts13:18 And for a period of about forty years He put up with them in the wilderness. 
Acts13:19 And when He destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, He distributed their land as an inheritance—all of which took about 450 years." 
Acts13:20 After these things He gave them judges until Samuel the prophet. 
Acts13:21 Then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years." 
Acts13:22 And after He had removed him, He raised up David to be their king, about whom He also said, bearing witness, ‘I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after My heart, who will do all My will.’" 
Acts13:23 From the seed of this man, according to promise, God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus," 
Acts13:24 after John had preached before His coming a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. 
Acts13:24 after John had preached before His coming a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. 
Acts13:25 And as John was fulfilling his course, he kept saying, ‘What do you suppose that I am? I am not He. But behold, one is coming after me of whom I am not worthy to untie the sandals of His feet.’" 
Acts13:25 And as John was fulfilling his course, he kept saying, ‘What do you suppose that I am? I am not He. But behold, one is coming after me of whom I am not worthy to untie the sandals of His feet.’" 
Acts13:26 “Brothers, sons of Abraham’s family, and those among you who fear God, to us the word of this salvation was sent." 
Acts13:27 For those who live in Jerusalem, and their rulers, recognizing neither Him nor the utterances of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning Him." 
Acts13:28 And though they found no ground for death, they asked Pilate that He be executed." 
Acts13:29 And when they had finished all that was written concerning Him, they took Him down from the tree and laid Him in a tomb." 
Acts13:30 But God raised Him from the dead; 
Acts13:31 and for many days He appeared to those who came up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, the very ones who are now His witnesses to the people." 
Acts13:32 And we proclaim to you the good news of the promise made to the fathers," 
Acts13:33 that God has fulfilled this promise to our children in that He raised up Jesus, as it is also written in the second Psalm, ‘You are My Son; today I have begotten You.’" 
Acts13:34 But that He raised Him up from the dead, no longer to return to corruption, He has spoken in this way: ‘I will give you the holy and faithful lovingkindnesses of David.’" 
Acts13:35 Therefore He also says in another Psalm, ‘You will not give Your Holy One over to see corruption.’" 
Acts13:36 For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid among his fathers and saw corruption;" 
Acts13:37 but He whom God raised did not see corruption. 
Acts13:38 Therefore let it be known to you, brothers, that through Him forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you," 
Acts13:39 and that in Him, everyone who believes is justified from all things which you could not be justified from through the Law of Moses." 
Acts13:40 Therefore watch out, so that the thing spoken of in the Prophets may not come upon you:" 
Acts13:41 ‘Look, you scoffers, and marvel, and perish; For I am accomplishing a work in your days, A work which you will never believe, though someone should recount it to you.’”" 
Acts13:42 And as Paul and Barnabas were leaving, the people kept pleading that these words might be spoken to them the next Sabbath." 
Acts13:43 Now when the meeting of the synagogue had broken up, many of the Jews and of the God-fearing proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, were urging them to continue in the grace of God." 
Acts13:44 And the next Sabbath, nearly the whole city assembled to hear the word of the Lord." 
Acts13:45 But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began contradicting the things spoken by Paul, blaspheming." 
Acts13:46 Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, “It was necessary that the word of God be spoken to you first. Since you reject it and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles." 
Acts13:47 For so the Lord has commanded us, ‘I have placed You as a light for the Gentiles, That You may bring salvation to the end of the earth.’”" 
Acts13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed." 
Acts13:49 And the word of the Lord was being spread through the whole region. 
Acts13:50 But the Jews incited the God-fearing women of prominence and the leading men of the city, and instigated a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district." 
Acts13:51 But having shaken off the dust of their feet against them, they went to Iconium." 
Acts13:52 And the disciples were continually filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. 
Acts14:1 Now it happened that in Iconium they entered the synagogue of the Jews together and spoke in such a manner that a large number of people believed, both of Jews and of Greeks." 
Acts14:2 But the unbelieving Jews instigated and embittered the minds of the Gentiles against the brothers. 
Acts14:3 Therefore they spent a long time there speaking boldly with reliance upon the Lord, who was testifying to the word of His grace, granting that signs and wonders be done through their hands." 
Acts14:4 But the multitude of the city was divided; and some sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles." 
Acts14:5 And when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews with their rulers to mistreat and to stone them," 
Acts14:6 they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surrounding region;" 
Acts14:7 and there they continued to proclaim the gospel. 
Acts14:8 And at Lystra a man was sitting who had no strength in his feet, lame from his mother’s womb, who had never walked." 
Acts14:9 This man listened to Paul as he spoke, who, when he fixed his gaze on him and saw that he had faith to be saved from being lame," 
Acts14:10 said with a loud voice, “Stand upright on your feet.” And he leaped up and began to walk." 
Acts14:11 And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they raised their voice, saying in the Lycaonian language, “The gods have become like men and have come down to us.”" 
Acts14:12 And they began calling Barnabas, Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the chief speaker." 
Acts14:13 And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, and was wanting to offer sacrifice with the crowds." 
Acts14:14 But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd, crying out" 
Acts14:15 and saying, “Men, why are you doing these things? We are also men of the same nature as you, proclaiming the gospel to you that you should turn from these vain things to a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them." 
Acts14:16 In the generations gone by He permitted all the nations to go their own ways; 
Acts14:17 and yet He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good and gave you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and gladness.”" 
Acts14:18 And saying these things, with difficulty they restrained the crowds from offering sacrifice to them." 
Acts14:19 But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and after winning over the crowds and stoning Paul, they were dragging him out of the city, supposing him to be dead." 
Acts14:20 But while the disciples stood around him, he rose up and entered the city. The next day he went away with Barnabas to Derbe." 
Acts14:21 And after they had proclaimed the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch," 
Acts14:22 strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying, “Through many afflictions we must enter the kingdom of God.”" 
Acts14:23 And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed." 
Acts14:24 And when they passed through Pisidia, they came into Pamphylia." 
Acts14:25 And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia." 
Acts14:26 And from there they sailed to Antioch, from where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work that they had fulfilled." 
Acts14:27 And when they had arrived and gathered the church together, they began to report all things that God had done with them and how He had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles." 
Acts14:28 And they spent not a little time with the disciples. 
Acts15:1 Some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts15:1 Some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.”" 
Acts15:2 And when Paul and Barnabas had not a little dissension and debate with them, the brothers determined that Paul and Barnabas and some others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders concerning this issue." 
Acts15:3 Therefore, being sent on their way by the church, they were passing through both Phoenicia and Samaria, recounting in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and were bringing great joy to all the brothers." 
Acts15:4 When they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all that God had done with them." 
Acts15:5 But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up, saying, “It is necessary to circumcise them and to command them to keep the Law of Moses.”" 
Acts15:6 Both the apostles and the elders came together to look into this matter. 
Acts15:7 And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, “Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe." 
Acts15:8 And God, who knows the heart, testified to them giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He also did to us;" 
Acts15:9 and He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith." 
Acts15:10 Now therefore why do you put God to the test by placing upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? 
Acts15:11 But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, in the same way as they also are.”" 
Acts15:12 And all the multitude kept silent, and they were listening to Barnabas and Paul as they were relating what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles." 
Acts15:13 Now after they had stopped speaking, James answered, saying, “Brothers, listen to me." 
Acts15:13 Now after they had stopped speaking, James answered, saying, “Brothers, listen to me." 
Acts15:14 Simeon has related how God first concerned Himself about taking from among the Gentiles a people for His name. 
Acts15:15 And with this the words of the Prophets agree, just as it is written," 
Acts15:16 ‘After these things I will return, And I will rebuild the fallen booth of David, And I will rebuild its ruins, And I will restore it," 
Acts15:17 So that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, And all the Gentiles who are called by My name,’" 
Acts15:18 Says the Lord, who makes these things known from long ago." 
Acts15:19 Therefore I judge that we do not trouble those who are turning to God from among the Gentiles," 
Acts15:20 but that we write to them that they abstain from things contaminated by idols and from sexual immorality and from what is strangled and from blood. 
Acts15:21 For from ancient generations, Moses has those who preach him in every city, since he is read in the synagogues every Sabbath.”" 
Acts15:22 Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men from among them—Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers—to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas," 
Acts15:23 and they sent this letter by them, “The apostles and the brothers who are elders, to the brothers in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia who are from the Gentiles, greetings." 
Acts15:24 Since we have heard that some of us, to whom we gave no instruction, have gone out and disturbed you with their words, unsettling your souls," 
Acts15:25 it seemed good to us, having come to one accord, to select men to send to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul," 
Acts15:26 men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Acts15:27 Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, and they themselves will report the same things by word of mouth." 
Acts15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these essentials: 
Acts15:29 that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols and from blood and from things strangled and from sexual immorality, from which if you keep yourselves, you will do well. Farewell.”" 
Acts15:30 So when they were sent away, they went down to Antioch; and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter." 
Acts15:31 And when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement." 
Acts15:32 And both Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with a lengthy message." 
Acts15:33 And after they had spent time there, they were sent away from the brothers in peace to those who had sent them." 
Acts15:34 [But it seemed good to Silas to remain there.] 
Acts15:35 But Paul and Barnabas spent a long time in Antioch, teaching and preaching with many others also, the word of the Lord." 
Acts15:36 Now after some days Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us return and visit the brothers in every city in which we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are.”" 
Acts15:37 And Barnabas wanted to take John, called Mark, along with them also." 
Acts15:37 And Barnabas wanted to take John, called Mark, along with them also." 
Acts15:37 And Barnabas wanted to take John, called Mark, along with them also." 
Acts15:38 But Paul kept insisting that they should not take him along who had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. 
Acts15:39 And there was such a sharp disagreement that they separated from one another, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus." 
Acts15:39 And there was such a sharp disagreement that they separated from one another, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus." 
Acts15:40 But Paul chose Silas and left, being committed by the brothers to the grace of the Lord." 
Acts15:41 And he was traveling through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches." 
Acts16:1 Now Paul also arrived at Derbe and at Lystra. And behold, a disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek," 
Acts16:2 and he was well spoken of by the brothers who were in Lystra and Iconium. 
Acts16:3 Paul wanted this man to go with him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those parts, for they all knew that his father was a Greek." 
Acts16:4 Now while they were passing through the cities, they were delivering the decrees which had been decided upon by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem, for them to keep." 
Acts16:5 So the churches were being strengthened in the faith, and were abounding in number daily." 
Acts16:6 And they passed through the Phrygian and Galatian region, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia;" 
Acts16:7 and after they came to Mysia, they were trying to go into Bithynia, and the Spirit of Jesus did not permit them;" 
Acts16:8 and passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas." 
Acts16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: a man of Macedonia was standing and appealing to him, and saying, “Come over to Macedonia and help us.”" 
Acts16:10 And when he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to proclaim the gospel to them." 
Acts16:11 So setting sail from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and on the day following to Neapolis;" 
Acts16:12 and from there to Philippi, which is a leading city of the district of Macedonia, a Roman colony; and we were staying in this city for some days." 
Acts16:13 And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to a riverside, where we were supposing that there would be a place of prayer; and sitting down, we began speaking to the women who had assembled." 
Acts16:14 And a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshiper of God, was listening, whose heart the Lord opened to pay attention to the things spoken by Paul." 
Acts16:15 And when she and her household had been baptized, she urged us, saying, “If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay.” And she prevailed upon us." 
Acts16:16 Now it happened that as we were going to the place of prayer, a servant-girl having a spirit of divination met us, who was bringing her masters much profit by fortune-telling." 
Acts16:17 Following after Paul and us, she kept crying out, saying, “These men are slaves of the Most High God, who are proclaiming to you the way of salvation.”" 
Acts16:18 And she continued doing this for many days. But being greatly annoyed, Paul turned and said to the spirit, “I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to leave her!” And it left at that very moment." 
Acts16:19 But when her masters saw that their hope of profit had left, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the authorities," 
Acts16:20 and when they had brought them to the chief magistrates, they said, “These men are throwing our city into confusion, being Jews," 
Acts16:21 and are proclaiming customs that are not lawful for us to accept or to observe, being Romans.”" 
Acts16:21 and are proclaiming customs that are not lawful for us to accept or to observe, being Romans.”" 
Acts16:22 And the crowd joined together to attack them, and the chief magistrates, tearing their garments off of them, proceeded to order them to be beaten with rods." 
Acts16:23 And when they had inflicted them with many wounds, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to guard them securely," 
Acts16:24 who, having received such a command, threw them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks." 
Acts16:25 But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns of praise to God, and the prisoners were listening to them." 
Acts16:26 And suddenly there came a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the jailhouse were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened and everyone’s chains were unfastened." 
Acts16:27 And when the jailer awoke and saw the prison doors opened, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped." 
Acts16:28 But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Do not harm yourself, for we are all here!”" 
Acts16:29 And he called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and Silas," 
Acts16:30 and after he brought them out, he said, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?”" 
Acts16:31 And they said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your house.”" 
Acts16:32 And they spoke the word of the Lord to him together with all who were in his household. 
Acts16:33 And he took them that very hour of the night and washed their wounds, and immediately he was baptized, he and all his household." 
Acts16:34 And he brought them into his house and set food before them, and rejoiced greatly with his whole household, because he had believed in God." 
Acts16:35 Now when day came, the chief magistrates sent their policemen, saying, “Release those men.”" 
Acts16:36 And the jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, “The chief magistrates have sent to release you. Therefore come out now and go in peace.”" 
Acts16:37 But Paul said to them, “Having beaten us in public without trial, men who are Romans, they have thrown us into prison. And now are they sending us away secretly? No indeed! But let them come themselves and bring us out.”" 
Acts16:37 But Paul said to them, “Having beaten us in public without trial, men who are Romans, they have thrown us into prison. And now are they sending us away secretly? No indeed! But let them come themselves and bring us out.”" 
Acts16:38 And the policemen reported these words to the chief magistrates. They were afraid when they heard that they were Romans," 
Acts16:38 And the policemen reported these words to the chief magistrates. They were afraid when they heard that they were Romans," 
Acts16:39 and they came and appealed to them, and when they had brought them out, they kept requesting them to leave the city." 
Acts16:40 And they went out of the prison and entered the house of Lydia, and when they saw the brothers, they encouraged them and left." 
Acts17:1 Now when they had traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews." 
Acts17:2 And according to Paul’s custom, he went to them, and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the Scriptures," 
Acts17:3 explaining and setting before them that the Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, “This Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you is that Christ.”" 
Acts17:4 And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, along with a great multitude of the God-fearing Greeks and not a few of the leading women." 
Acts17:5 But the Jews, becoming jealous, taking along some wicked men from the marketplace, and forming a mob, set the city in an uproar. And attacking the house of Jason, they were seeking to bring them out to the assembly." 
Acts17:6 And when they did not find them, they began dragging Jason and some brothers before the city authorities, shouting, “These men who have upset the world have come here also;" 
Acts17:7 and Jason has welcomed them, and they all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.”" 
Acts17:8 And they disturbed the crowd and the city authorities who heard these things. 
Acts17:9 And when they had received the bond from Jason and the others, they released them." 
Acts17:10 And the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews." 
Acts17:11 Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see whether these things were so." 
Acts17:12 Therefore many of them believed, along with not a few prominent Greek women and men." 
Acts17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica found out that the word of God had been proclaimed by Paul in Berea also, they came there as well, shaking up and disturbing the crowds." 
Acts17:14 Then immediately the brothers sent Paul out to go as far as the sea; and Silas and Timothy remained there. 
Acts17:15 Now those who escorted Paul brought him as far as Athens; and after receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they left." 
Acts17:16 Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was being provoked within him as he was observing the city full of idols." 
Acts17:17 So he was reasoning in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearing Gentiles, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be present." 
Acts17:18 And also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were conversing with him. Some were saying, “What would this idle babbler wish to say?” Others, “He seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities,”—because he was proclaiming the good news of Jesus and the resurrection." 
Acts17:19 And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, “May we know what this new teaching is which you are speaking?" 
Acts17:20 For you are bringing some strange things to our ears. So we want to know what these things mean.” 
Acts17:21 (Now all the Athenians and the strangers visiting there used to spend their time in nothing other than telling or hearing something newer.) 
Acts17:22 So Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, “Men of Athens, I observe that you are very religious in all respects." 
Acts17:23 For while I was passing through and examining the objects of your worship, I also found an altar with this inscription, ‘TO AN UNKNOWN GOD.’ Therefore what you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you." 
Acts17:24 The God who made the world and all things in it, since He is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands;" 
Acts17:25 nor is He served by human hands, as though He needed anything, since He Himself gives to all people life and breath and all things;" 
Acts17:26 and He made from one man every nation of mankind to inhabit all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation," 
Acts17:27 that they would seek God, if perhaps they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us;" 
Acts17:28 for in Him we live and move and exist, as even some of your own poets have said, ‘For we also are His offspring.’" 
Acts17:29 Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to suppose that the Divine Nature is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the craft and thought of man." 
Acts17:30 Therefore having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now commanding men that everyone everywhere should repent," 
Acts17:31 because He has fixed a day in which He will judge the world in righteousness through a Man whom He determined, having furnished proof to all by raising Him from the dead.”" 
Acts17:32 Now when they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some began to sneer, but others said, “We shall hear you again concerning this.”" 
Acts17:33 In this way, Paul went out of their midst." 
Acts17:34 But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them." 
Acts18:1 After these things he departed Athens and went to Corinth. 
Acts18:2 And he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, and his wife Priscilla, who recently came from Italy because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. He came to them," 
Acts18:3 and because he was of the same trade, he was staying with them and they were working, for by trade they were tent-makers." 
Acts18:4 And he was reasoning in the synagogue every Sabbath and trying to persuade both Jews and Greeks. 
Acts18:5 But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul began devoting himself completely to the word, solemnly bearing witness to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ." 
Acts18:6 But when they resisted and blasphemed, he shook out his garments and said to them, “Your blood be on your own heads! I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles.”" 
Acts18:7 Then he left there and went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a God-fearer, whose house was next to the synagogue." 
Acts18:8 And Crispus, the leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his household, and many of the Corinthians when they heard were believing and being baptized." 
Acts18:9 And the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, “Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent;" 
Acts18:10 for I am with you, and no man will lay a hand on you in order to harm you, for I have many people in this city.”" 
Acts18:11 And he stayed there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them." 
Acts18:12 But while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat," 
Acts18:13 saying, “This man persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.”" 
Acts18:14 But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, “If it were a wrongdoing or vicious crime, O Jews, it would be reasonable for me to put up with you;" 
Acts18:15 but if there are questions about words and names and your own law, see to it yourselves; I am not willing to be a judge of these matters.”" 
Acts18:16 And he drove them away from the judgment seat. 
Acts18:17 And they all took hold of Sosthenes, the leader of the synagogue, and began beating him in front of the judgment seat. But Gallio was not concerned about any of these things." 
Acts18:18 And Paul, having remained many days longer, took leave of the brothers and put out to sea for Syria, and with him were Priscilla and Aquila. In Cenchreae he had his hair cut, for he was keeping a vow." 
Acts18:19 And they arrived at Ephesus, and he left them there. Now he himself entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews." 
Acts18:20 When they asked him to stay for a longer time, he did not consent," 
Acts18:21 but taking leave of them and saying, “I will return to you again if God wills,” he set sail from Ephesus." 
Acts18:22 And when he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and went down to Antioch." 
Acts18:23 And having spent some time there, he left and passed successively through the Galatian region and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples." 
Acts18:24 Now a Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man, arrived at Ephesus; and he was mighty in the Scriptures." 
Acts18:25 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he was speaking and teaching accurately the things concerning Jesus, being acquainted only with the baptism of John;" 
Acts18:25 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he was speaking and teaching accurately the things concerning Jesus, being acquainted only with the baptism of John;" 
Acts18:26 and he began to speak out boldly in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately." 
Acts18:27 And when he wanted to go across to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him; and when he had arrived, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace," 
Acts18:28 for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, demonstrating by the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ." 
Acts19:1 Now it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the upper regions and came to Ephesus and found some disciples." 
Acts19:2 And he said to them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?” And they said to him, “No, we have not even heard if the Holy Spirit is being received.”" 
Acts19:3 And he said, “Into what then were you baptized?” And they said, “Into John’s baptism.”" 
Acts19:3 And he said, “Into what then were you baptized?” And they said, “Into John’s baptism.”" 
Acts19:4 Then Paul said, “John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in Him who was coming after him, that is, in Jesus.”" 
Acts19:4 Then Paul said, “John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in Him who was coming after him, that is, in Jesus.”" 
Acts19:5 And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus." 
Acts19:6 And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking with tongues and prophesying." 
Acts19:7 Now there were in all about twelve men. 
Acts19:8 And after he entered the synagogue, he continued speaking out boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God." 
Acts19:9 But when some were becoming hardened and were not believing, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he left them and took away the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus." 
Acts19:10 This took place for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks." 
Acts19:11 And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul," 
Acts19:12 so that cloths or aprons were even carried from his body to the sick, and the diseases left them and the evil spirits went out." 
Acts19:13 But also some of the Jewish exorcists, who went from place to place, attempted to invoke over those who had the evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, “I implore you by Jesus whom Paul preaches.”" 
Acts19:14 Now seven sons of one named Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, were doing this." 
Acts19:15 And the evil spirit answered and said to them, “I recognize Jesus, and I know about Paul, but who are you?”" 
Acts19:16 And the man, in whom was the evil spirit, leaped on them, subdued all of them, and utterly prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded." 
Acts19:17 And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, who lived in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all and the name of the Lord Jesus was being magnified." 
Acts19:18 Also, many of those who had believed kept coming, confessing and disclosing their practices." 
Acts19:19 And many of those who practiced magic brought their books together and were burning them in the sight of everyone; and they counted up the price of them and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver. 
Acts19:20 So the word of the Lord was growing mightily and prevailing. 
Acts19:21 Now after these things were finished, Paul purposed in the Spirit to go to Jerusalem after he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, saying, “After I have been there, I must also see Rome.”" 
Acts19:22 And having sent into Macedonia two of those who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for a while." 
Acts19:23 Now about that time there occurred no small disturbance concerning the Way. 
Acts19:24 For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, was bringing no little business to the craftsmen;" 
Acts19:25 these he gathered together with the workers of similar trades, and said, “Men, you know that our prosperity is from this business." 
Acts19:26 And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away a considerable crowd, saying that things made with hands are not gods." 
Acts19:27 And not only is there danger that this trade of ours fall into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis be considered as worthless and that she, whom all of Asia and the world worship, is even about to be brought down from her majesty.”" 
Acts19:28 When they heard this and were filled with rage, they began crying out, saying, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:28 When they heard this and were filled with rage, they began crying out, saying, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:29 And the city was filled with the confusion, and they rushed with one accord into the theater, dragging along Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul’s traveling companions from Macedonia." 
Acts19:30 And when Paul wanted to go into the assembly, the disciples would not let him." 
Acts19:31 Also some of the Asiarchs who were friends of his sent to him and repeatedly urged him not to venture into the theater. 
Acts19:32 So then, some were shouting one thing and some another, for the meeting was in confusion and the majority did not know for what reason they had come together." 
Acts19:33 And some of the crowd concluded it was Alexander, since the Jews had put him forward; and having motioned with his hand, Alexander was intending to make a defense to the assembly." 
Acts19:34 But when they recognized that he was a Jew, a single cry arose from them all as they shouted for about two hours, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:34 But when they recognized that he was a Jew, a single cry arose from them all as they shouted for about two hours, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”" 
Acts19:35 Now after calming the crowd, the city clerk said, “Men of Ephesus, what man is there after all who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the great Artemis and of the image which fell down from heaven?" 
Acts19:35 Now after calming the crowd, the city clerk said, “Men of Ephesus, what man is there after all who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the great Artemis and of the image which fell down from heaven?" 
Acts19:36 So, since these are undeniable facts, you ought to keep calm and to do nothing rash." 
Acts19:37 For you have brought these men here who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of our goddess. 
Acts19:38 So then, if Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are in session and proconsuls are available; let them bring charges against one another." 
Acts19:39 But if you want anything beyond this, it shall be settled in the lawful meeting." 
Acts19:40 For indeed we are in danger of being accused of a riot in connection with today’s events, since there is no cause for which we can give as an account for this disorderly gathering.”" 
Acts19:41 After saying this he dismissed the meeting. 
Acts20:1 Now after the uproar had ceased, Paul having summoned and exhorted the disciples, said farewell and left to go to Macedonia." 
Acts20:2 And when he had gone through those districts and had given them much exhortation, he came to Greece." 
Acts20:3 And there he spent three months, and when a plot was formed against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia." 
Acts20:4 And he was accompanied by Sopater of Berea, the son of Pyrrhus, and by Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia." 
Acts20:5 But these had gone on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas. 
Acts20:6 And we sailed from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and came to them at Troas within five days; and there we stayed seven days." 
Acts20:7 And on the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul began speaking to them, intending to leave the next day, and he prolonged his message until midnight." 
Acts20:8 Now there were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered together. 
Acts20:9 And there was a young man named Eutychus sitting on the windowsill, sinking into a deep sleep. And as Paul kept on talking, he sunk into that sleep and fell down from the third floor and was picked up dead." 
Acts20:10 But Paul went down and fell upon him, and after embracing him, he said, “Do not be troubled, for his life is in him.”" 
Acts20:11 And when he had gone back up and had broken the bread and eaten, he talked with them a long while until daybreak, and then left." 
Acts20:12 And they took away the boy alive, and were not a little comforted." 
Acts20:13 But we, going ahead to the ship, set sail for Assos, intending from there to take Paul on board; for so he had arranged it, intending himself to go by land." 
Acts20:14 And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and came to Mitylene." 
Acts20:15 And sailing from there, we arrived the following day opposite Chios; and the next day we crossed over to Samos; and the day following we came to Miletus." 
Acts20:16 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so that he would not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying to be in Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost." 
Acts20:17 Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called to him the elders of the church. 
Acts20:18 And when they had come to him, he said to them, “You yourselves know, from the first day that I set foot in Asia, how I was with you the whole time," 
Acts20:19 serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials which came upon me through the plots of the Jews; 
Acts20:20 how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you publicly and from house to house," 
Acts20:21 solemnly testifying to both Jews and Greeks about repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Acts20:22 And now, behold, bound by the Spirit, I am on my way to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there," 
Acts20:23 except that the Holy Spirit solemnly testifies to me in every city, saying that chains and afflictions await me." 
Acts20:24 But I do not make my life of any account nor dear to myself, so that I may finish my course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God." 
Acts20:25 “And now, behold, I know that all of you, among whom I went about preaching the kingdom, will no longer see my face." 
Acts20:26 Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all." 
Acts20:27 For I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God. 
Acts20:28 Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood." 
Acts20:29 I know that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;" 
Acts20:30 and from among your own selves men will arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them." 
Acts20:31 Therefore be watchful, remembering that night and day for a period of three years I did not cease to admonish each one with tears." 
Acts20:32 And now I commend you to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who have been sanctified." 
Acts20:33 I have coveted no one’s silver or gold or clothes. 
Acts20:34 You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my own needs and to those who were with me. 
Acts20:35 In everything I showed you that by laboring in this manner you must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’”" 
Acts20:36 And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all." 
Acts20:37 And they began to weep aloud and falling on Paul’s neck, they were kissing him," 
Acts20:38 being in agony especially over the word which he had spoken, that they would not see his face again. And they were accompanying him to the ship." 
Acts21:1 Now when we had parted from them and had set sail, we came by a straight course to Cos and the next day to Rhodes and from there to Patara;" 
Acts21:2 and having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail." 
Acts21:3 And when we came in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left, we kept sailing to Syria and landed at Tyre; for there the ship was to unload its cargo." 
Acts21:4 And after looking up the disciples, we stayed there seven days; and they kept telling Paul through the Spirit not to set foot in Jerusalem." 
Acts21:5 And when our days there were ended, we left and started on our journey, while they all, with wives and children, escorted us until we were out of the city. After kneeling down on the beach and praying, we said farewell to one another." 
Acts21:6 Then we went on board the ship, and they returned home again." 
Acts21:7 And when we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, and after greeting the brothers, we stayed with them for a day." 
Acts21:8 And on the next day we left and came to Caesarea, and entering the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him." 
Acts21:9 Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied. 
Acts21:10 And as we were staying there for some days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea." 
Acts21:10 And as we were staying there for some days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea." 
Acts21:11 And coming to us, he took Paul’s belt and bound his own feet and hands, and said, “This is what the Holy Spirit says: ‘In this way the Jews at Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.’”" 
Acts21:12 And when we had heard this, we as well as the local residents began begging him not to go up to Jerusalem." 
Acts21:13 Then Paul answered, “What are you doing, crying and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but even to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.”" 
Acts21:14 And since he would not be persuaded, we fell silent, saying, “The will of the Lord be done!”" 
Acts21:15 Now after these days we got ready and started on our way up to Jerusalem. 
Acts21:16 And some of the disciples from Caesarea also came with us, taking us to Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple with whom we were to lodge." 
Acts21:17 And after we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us gladly." 
Acts21:18 And the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present." 
Acts21:18 And the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present." 
Acts21:19 And after he had greeted them, he began to relate one by one the things which God did among the Gentiles through his ministry." 
Acts21:20 And when they heard it they began glorifying God; and they said to him, “You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed, and they are all zealous for the Law;" 
Acts21:21 and they have been told about you, that you are teaching all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children nor to walk according to the customs." 
Acts21:22 What, then, is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come." 
Acts21:23 Therefore do this that we tell you. We have four men who are under a vow; 
Acts21:24 take them and purify yourself along with them, and pay their expenses so that they may shave their heads. Then all will know that there is nothing to the things which they have been told about you, but that you yourself also walk orderly, keeping the Law." 
Acts21:25 But concerning the Gentiles who have believed, we wrote, having decided that they should keep from meat sacrificed to idols and from blood and from what is strangled and from sexual immorality.”" 
Acts21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day, purifying himself along with them, went into the temple giving notice of the completion of the days of purification, until the sacrifice was offered for each one of them." 
Acts21:27 Now when the seven days were almost over, the Jews from Asia, upon noticing him in the temple, began to throw all the crowd into confusion and laid hands on him," 
Acts21:28 crying out, “Men of Israel, help! This is the man who teaches to everyone everywhere against our people and the Law and this place; and besides, he has even brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place.”" 
Acts21:29 For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple." 
Acts21:30 Then all the city was stirred, and the people rushed together, and taking hold of Paul they dragged him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were shut." 
Acts21:31 While they were seeking to kill him, a report came up to the commander of the Roman cohort that all Jerusalem was in confusion." 
Acts21:32 At once he took along soldiers and centurions and ran down to them; and when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul." 
Acts21:33 Then the commander came up and took hold of him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains; and he began asking who he was and what he had done." 
Acts21:34 But among the crowd some were shouting one thing and some another, and when he could not find out the facts because of the uproar, he ordered him to be brought into the barracks." 
Acts21:35 And when he got to the stairs, he actually was carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd;" 
Acts21:36 for the multitude of the people kept following them, shouting, “Away with him!”" 
Acts21:37 As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the commander, “May I say something to you?” And he said, “Do you know Greek?" 
Acts21:38 Then you are not the Egyptian who some time ago raised a revolt and led the four thousand men of the Assassins out into the wilderness?” 
Acts21:39 But Paul said, “I am a Jew of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city; and I beg you, allow me to speak to the people.”" 
Acts21:40 And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the stairs, motioned to the people with his hand; and when there was a great hush, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying," 
Acts22:1 “Men, brothers, and fathers, hear my defense which I now offer to you.”" 
Acts22:2 And when they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they became even quieter; and he said," 
Acts22:3 “I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but having been brought up in this city, having been instructed at the feet of Gamaliel according to the strictness of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God just as you all are today," 
Acts22:4 I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering both men and women into prisons," 
Acts22:5 as also the high priest and all the Council of the elders can testify. From them I also received letters to the brothers, and started off for Damascus in order to bring even those who were there to Jerusalem as prisoners to be punished." 
Acts22:6 “But it happened that as I was on my way, approaching Damascus about noontime, a very bright light suddenly flashed from heaven all around me," 
Acts22:7 and I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?’" 
Acts22:8 And I answered, ‘Who are You, Lord?’ And He said to me, ‘I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting.’" 
Acts22:9 And those who were with me beheld the light, to be sure, but did not understand the voice of the One who was speaking to me." 
Acts22:10 And I said, ‘What should I do, Lord?’ And the Lord said to me, ‘Rise up and go on into Damascus, and there you will be told of all that has been determined for you to do.’" 
Acts22:11 But since I could not see because of the glory of that light, being led by the hand by those who were with me, I came into Damascus." 
Acts22:12 “Now a certain Ananias, a man who was devout by the standard of the Law, and well spoken of by all the Jews who lived there," 
Acts22:13 came to me, and standing near, said to me, ‘Brother Saul, regain your sight!’ And at that very hour I regained my sight and saw him." 
Acts22:14 And he said, ‘The God of our fathers has appointed you to know His will and to see the Righteous One and to hear a voice from His mouth." 
Acts22:15 For you will be a witness for Him to all men of what you have seen and heard. 
Acts22:16 Now why do you delay? Rise up and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on His name.’" 
Acts22:17 “Now it happened when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, that I fell into a trance," 
Acts22:18 and I saw Him saying to me, ‘Hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your witness about Me.’" 
Acts22:19 And I said, ‘Lord, they themselves understand that in one synagogue after another I used to imprison and beat those who believed in You." 
Acts22:20 And when the blood of Your witness Stephen was being shed, I also was standing by approving, and guarding the garments of those who were slaying him.’" 
Acts22:21 And He said to me, ‘Go! For I will send you far away to the Gentiles.’”" 
Acts22:22 And they were listening to him up to this statement, and then they raised their voices and said, “Away with such a fellow from the earth, for he should not be allowed to live!”" 
Acts22:23 And as they were crying out and throwing off their garments and tossing dust into the air," 
Acts22:24 the commander ordered him to be brought into the barracks, stating that he should be examined by flogging so that he might find out the reason why they were shouting against him that way." 
Acts22:25 But when they stretched him out with leather straps, Paul said to the centurion who was standing by, “Is it lawful for you to flog a man who is a Roman and uncondemned?”" 
Acts22:26 And when the centurion heard this, he went to the commander and reported to him, saying, “What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman.”" 
Acts22:27 And the commander came and said to him, “Tell me, are you a Roman?” And he said, “Yes.”" 
Acts22:28 And the commander answered, “I acquired this citizenship with a large sum of money.” And Paul said, “But I have been born a citizen.”" 
Acts22:29 Therefore those who were about to examine him immediately withdrew from him; and the commander also was afraid when he learned that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him." 
Acts22:30 But on the next day, wishing to know for certain why he had been accused by the Jews, he released him and ordered the chief priests and all the Sanhedrin to come together, and brought Paul down and set him before them." 
Acts23:1 Now Paul, looking intently at the Sanhedrin, said, “Brothers, I have lived my life in all good conscience before God up to this day.”" 
Acts23:2 And the high priest Ananias commanded those standing beside him to strike him on the mouth. 
Acts23:3 Then Paul said to him, “God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall! Do you sit to try me according to the Law, and in violation of the Law order me to be struck?”" 
Acts23:4 But those standing nearby said, “Do you revile the high priest of God?”" 
Acts23:5 And Paul said, “I was not aware, brothers, that he was high priest; for it is written, ‘You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people.’”" 
Acts23:6 But knowing that one group were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, Paul began crying out in the Sanhedrin, “Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees; I am on trial for the hope and resurrection of the dead!”" 
Acts23:7 As he said this, there was dissension between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the assembly was divided." 
Acts23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor an angel, nor a spirit, but the Pharisees acknowledge them all." 
Acts23:9 And there occurred a great outcry; and some of the scribes of the Pharisaic party stood up and began to argue heatedly, saying, “We find nothing wrong with this man. Suppose a spirit or an angel has spoken to him?”" 
Acts23:10 And as a great dissension was developing, because the commander was afraid Paul would be torn to pieces by them, he ordered the troops to go down and take him away from them by force, and bring him into the barracks." 
Acts23:11 But on that very night, the Lord stood at his side and said, “Take courage; for as you have solemnly borne witness to My cause at Jerusalem, so you must bear witness at Rome also.”" 
Acts23:12 Now when it was day, the Jews formed a conspiracy and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul." 
Acts23:13 And there were more than forty who formed this scheme. 
Acts23:14 They came to the chief priests and the elders and said, “We have bound ourselves under a curse to taste nothing until we have killed Paul." 
Acts23:15 So now you, along with the Sanhedrin, notify the commander to bring him down to you, as though you were going to determine his case more carefully; and we for our part are ready to slay him before he comes near.”" 
Acts23:16 But when the son of Paul’s sister heard of their ambush, he came and entered the barracks and reported it to Paul." 
Acts23:17 And Paul called one of the centurions to him and said, “Lead this young man to the commander, for he has something to report to him.”" 
Acts23:18 So he took him and led him to the commander and said, “Paul the prisoner called me to him and asked me to lead this young man to you since he has something to tell you.”" 
Acts23:19 And the commander took him by the hand and stepping aside, began to inquire of him privately, “What is it that you have to report to me?”" 
Acts23:20 And he said, “The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down tomorrow to the Sanhedrin, as though they were going to inquire somewhat more carefully about him." 
Acts23:21 So do not be persuaded by them, for more than forty of them—who have bound themselves under a curse not to eat or drink until they slay him—are lying in wait for him and now they are ready and waiting for the promise from you.”" 
Acts23:22 So the commander let the young man go, instructing him, “Tell no one that you have notified me of these things.”" 
Acts23:23 And when he called to him two of the centurions, he said, “Make ready two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen to proceed to Caesarea by the third hour of the night," 
Acts23:24 and provide mounts to put Paul on and bring him safely to Felix the governor.” 
Acts23:25 And he wrote a letter having this form: 
Acts23:26 “Claudius Lysias, to the most excellent governor Felix, greetings." 
Acts23:27 “When this man was arrested by the Jews and was about to be slain by them, I came up to them with the troops and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman." 
Acts23:28 And wanting to ascertain the charge for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their Sanhedrin;" 
Acts23:29 and I found him to be accused over questions about their Law, but under no accusation deserving death or imprisonment." 
Acts23:30 “And when I was informed that there would be a plot against the man, I sent him to you at once, also instructing his accusers to speak against him before you.”" 
Acts23:31 So the soldiers, according to their orders, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris." 
Acts23:32 But the next day, leaving the horsemen to go on with him, they returned to the barracks." 
Acts23:33 When these had come to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him." 
Acts23:34 And when he had read it, he asked from what province he was, and when he learned that he was from Cilicia," 
Acts23:35 he said, “I will give you a hearing after your accusers arrive also,” giving orders for him to be kept in Herod’s Praetorium." 
Acts24:1 Now after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders, with an attorney named Tertullus, and they brought charges to the governor against Paul." 
Acts24:2 And after Paul had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “As we have attained much peace through you—and because by your provision reforms are being carried out for this nation—" 
Acts24:3 we welcome this in every way and everywhere, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness." 
Acts24:4 But, that I may not weary you any further, I plead with you by your forbearance to hear us briefly." 
Acts24:5 For we have found this man a real pest and a fellow who stirs up dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes." 
Acts24:6 And he even tried to desecrate the temple; and then we arrested him. [We wanted to judge him according to our own Law. 
Acts24:7 But Lysias the commander came along, and with much violence took him out of our hands," 
Acts24:8 ordering his accusers to come before you.] By examining him yourself concerning all these matters you will be able to ascertain the things of which we accuse him.” 
Acts24:9 And the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting that these things were so." 
Acts24:10 And when the governor had nodded for him to speak, Paul answered: “Knowing that for many years you have been a judge to this nation, I cheerfully make my defense," 
Acts24:11 since you are able to ascertain the fact that no more than twelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship. 
Acts24:12 And neither in the temple, nor in the synagogues, nor across the city did they find me carrying on a discussion with anyone or causing a riot." 
Acts24:13 Nor are they able to prove to you of what they are now accusing me. 
Acts24:14 But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I do serve the God of our fathers, believing everything that is in accordance with the Law and that is written in the Prophets;" 
Acts24:15 having a hope in God, for which these men are waiting, that there shall certainly be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous." 
Acts24:16 In view of this, I also do my best to maintain always a conscience without fault both before God and before men." 
Acts24:17 Now after several years I came to bring alms to my nation and offerings; 
Acts24:18 in which they found me, having been purified in the temple, without any crowd or uproar. But there were some Jews from Asia—" 
Acts24:19 who ought to have been present before you and to make accusation, if they should have anything against me." 
Acts24:20 Or else let these men themselves tell what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the Sanhedrin," 
Acts24:21 other than for this one statement which I shouted out while standing among them, ‘For the resurrection of the dead I am on trial before you today.’”" 
Acts24:22 But Felix, having a more accurate knowledge about the Way, put them off, saying, “When Lysias the commander comes down, I will decide your case.”" 
Acts24:23 Then he gave orders to the centurion for him to be kept in custody and yet have some rest, and not to prevent any of his friends from ministering to him." 
Acts24:24 But some days later Felix arrived with Drusilla, his wife who was a Jewess, and summoned Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus." 
Acts24:25 But as he was discussing righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix became frightened and answered, “Go away for the present, and when I find time I will call for you.”" 
Acts24:26 At the same time, he was also hoping that money would be given him by Paul; therefore he also used to summon for him quite often and converse with him." 
Acts24:27 But after two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus, and wishing to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul imprisoned." 
Acts25:1 Festus then, having arrived in the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea." 
Acts25:2 And the chief priests and the leading men of the Jews brought charges against Paul, and they were pleading with him," 
Acts25:3 requesting a favor against Paul, that he might have him brought to Jerusalem (while they set an ambush to kill him on the way)." 
Acts25:4 Festus then answered that Paul was being kept in custody at Caesarea and that he himself was about to leave shortly. 
Acts25:5 “Therefore,” he said, “let the influential men among you go down there with me, and if there is anything wrong about the man, let them accuse him.”" 
Acts25:6 And after he had spent not more than eight or ten days among them, he went down to Caesarea, and on the next day he took his seat on the judgment seat and ordered Paul to be brought." 
Acts25:7 And after Paul arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many and serious charges against him which they could not prove," 
Acts25:8 while Paul said in his own defense, “I have committed no sin either against the Law of the Jews or against the temple or against Caesar.”" 
Acts25:9 But Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor, answered Paul and said, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and to be tried before me on these matters?”" 
Acts25:10 But Paul said, “I am standing before Caesar’s judgment seat, where I ought to be tried. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you also very well know." 
Acts25:11 If, then, I am a wrongdoer and have committed anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if none of those things is true of which these men accuse me, no one can hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.”" 
Acts25:12 Then when Festus had conferred with his council, he answered, “You have appealed to Caesar, to Caesar you shall go.”" 
Acts25:13 Now when several days had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted Festus." 
Acts25:14 And while they were spending many days there, Festus laid Paul’s case before the king, saying, “There is a man who was left as a prisoner by Felix;" 
Acts25:15 and when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews brought charges against him, asking for a sentence of condemnation against him." 
Acts25:16 I answered them that it is not the custom of the Romans to hand over any man before the accused meets his accusers face to face and has an opportunity to make his defense against the charges. 
Acts25:16 I answered them that it is not the custom of the Romans to hand over any man before the accused meets his accusers face to face and has an opportunity to make his defense against the charges. 
Acts25:17 So after they had assembled here, I did not delay, but on the next day took my seat on the judgment seat and ordered the man to be brought before me." 
Acts25:18 When the accusers stood up, they were not bringing any charges against him for the evil deeds I was expecting," 
Acts25:19 but they had some points of disagreement with him about their own religion and about a certain Jesus, a dead man whom Paul asserted to be alive." 
Acts25:20 And being perplexed about how to investigate such matters, I was asking whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and there to be tried on these matters." 
Acts25:21 But when Paul appealed to be held in custody for the Emperor’s decision, I ordered him to be kept in custody until I send him to Caesar.”" 
Acts25:22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, “I also would like to hear the man myself.” “Tomorrow,” he said, “you shall hear him.”" 
Acts25:23 So, on the next day when Agrippa came together with Bernice amid great pomp, and entered the hall accompanied by the commanders and the prominent men of the city, at the order of Festus, Paul was brought in." 
Acts25:24 And Festus said, “King Agrippa, and all you gentlemen here present with us, you see this man about whom all the people of the Jews appealed to me, both at Jerusalem and here, loudly declaring that he ought not to live any longer." 
Acts25:25 But I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and since he himself appealed to the Emperor, I decided to send him." 
Acts25:26 Yet I have nothing definite about him to write to my lord. Therefore I have brought him before you all and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after the investigation has taken place, I may have something to write." 
Acts25:27 For it seems absurd to me in sending a prisoner, not to indicate also the charges against him.”" 
Acts26:1 Now Agrippa said to Paul, “You are permitted to speak for yourself.” Then Paul, stretching out his hand, began to make his defense:" 
Acts26:2 “Concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews, I regard myself blessed, King Agrippa, that I am about to make my defense before you today;" 
Acts26:3 especially because you are an expert in all customs and questions among the Jews; therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently. 
Acts26:4 “So then, all Jews know my manner of life from my youth, which from the beginning was spent among my own nation and at Jerusalem;" 
Acts26:5 since they have known about me for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that I lived as a Pharisee according to the strictest sect of our religion." 
Acts26:6 And now I am standing here being tried for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers; 
Acts26:7 the promise to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly serve God night and day. And for this hope, O King, I am being accused by Jews." 
Acts26:8 Why is it considered unbelievable among all of you if God does raise the dead? 
Acts26:9 “So then, I thought to myself that I had to do many things hostile to the name of Jesus the Nazarene." 
Acts26:10 And this is just what I did in Jerusalem; not only did I lock up many of the saints in prisons, having received authority from the chief priests, but also when they were being put to death I cast my vote against them." 
Acts26:11 And as I punished them often in all the synagogues, I tried to force them to blaspheme; and being furiously enraged at them, I kept pursuing them even to foreign cities." 
Acts26:12 “While so engaged as I was journeying to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests," 
Acts26:13 at midday, O King, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining all around me and those who were journeying with me." 
Acts26:14 And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’" 
Acts26:15 And I said, ‘Who are You, Lord?’ And the Lord said, ‘I am Jesus whom you are persecuting." 
Acts26:16 But rise up and stand on your feet; for this purpose I have appeared to you, to appoint you a servant and a witness not only to the things which you have seen, but also to the things in which I will appear to you;" 
Acts26:17 rescuing you from the Jewish people and from the Gentiles, to whom I am sending you," 
Acts26:18 to open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the authority of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who have been sanctified by faith in Me.’" 
Acts26:19 “So, King Agrippa, I did not prove disobedient to the heavenly vision," 
Acts26:20 but kept declaring both to those of Damascus first, and also at Jerusalem and then throughout all the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, practicing deeds appropriate to repentance." 
Acts26:20 but kept declaring both to those of Damascus first, and also at Jerusalem and then throughout all the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, practicing deeds appropriate to repentance." 
Acts26:21 For this reason some Jews seized me in the temple and were trying to put me to death. 
Acts26:22 Therefore, having obtained help from God to this day, I stand here bearing witness both to small and great, stating nothing but what the Prophets and Moses said was going to take place;" 
Acts26:23 that the Christ was to suffer, and that as first of the resurrection from the dead, He was going to proclaim light both to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles.”" 
Acts26:24 Now while Paul was saying this in his defense, Festus said in a loud voice, “Paul, you are out of your mind! Great learning is driving you out of your mind.”" 
Acts26:25 But Paul said, “I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I utter words of sober truth." 
Acts26:26 For the king knows about these matters, and I speak to him also with confidence, since I am persuaded that none of these things escape his notice; for this has not been done in a corner." 
Acts26:27 King Agrippa, do you believe the Prophets? I know you believe.”" 
Acts26:28 But Agrippa replied to Paul, “In such short time are you persuading me to become a Christian?”" 
Acts26:29 And Paul said, “I would pray to God, that whether in a short or long time, not only you, but also all who hear me this day, might become such as I am, except for these chains.”" 
Acts26:30 And the king stood up and the governor and Bernice, and those who were sitting with them," 
Acts26:31 and when they had gone aside, they began talking to one another, saying, “This man is not doing anything worthy of death or imprisonment.”" 
Acts26:32 And Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.”" 
Acts27:1 Now when it was decided that we would sail for Italy, they proceeded to deliver Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion of the Augustan cohort named Julius." 
Acts27:2 And getting aboard an Adramyttian ship, which was about to sail to the regions along the coast of Asia, we set sail accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica." 
Acts27:3 The next day we put in at Sidon, and Julius treated Paul with consideration and allowed him to go to his friends and receive care." 
Acts27:4 And from there we set sail and sailed under the shelter of Cyprus because the winds were against us. 
Acts27:5 And when we had sailed through the sea along the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we landed at Myra in Lycia." 
Acts27:6 There the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing for Italy, and he put us aboard it." 
Acts27:7 And when we had sailed slowly for a good many days, and with difficulty had arrived off Cnidus, since the wind did not permit us to go farther, we sailed under the shelter of Crete, off Salmone;" 
Acts27:8 and with difficulty, we sailed past it and came to a place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lasea." 
Acts27:9 And when considerable time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, since even the Fast was already over, Paul began to advise them," 
Acts27:10 and said to them, “Men, I perceive that the voyage will certainly be with damage and great loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.”" 
Acts27:11 But the centurion was being more persuaded by the pilot and the captain of the ship than by what was being said by Paul. 
Acts27:12 And because the harbor was not suitable for wintering, the majority reached a decision to set sail from there, if somehow they could arrive at Phoenix, a harbor of Crete facing southwest and northwest, to spend the winter there." 
Acts27:13 And when a moderate south wind came up, thinking that they had attained their purpose, they weighed anchor and began sailing along the shore of Crete." 
Acts27:14 But before very long there rushed down from the land a violent wind, called Euraquilo;" 
Acts27:15 and when the ship was caught in it and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and let ourselves be carried along." 
Acts27:16 And running under the shelter of a small island called Clauda, we were scarcely able to get the ship’s boat under control." 
Acts27:17 After they had hoisted it up, they used supporting cables in undergirding the ship. Fearing that they might run aground on the shallows of Syrtis, they let down the sea anchor and in this way let themselves be carried along." 
Acts27:18 And the next day as we were being violently storm-tossed, they began to jettison the cargo;" 
Acts27:19 and on the third day they cast the ship’s tackle overboard with their own hands. 
Acts27:20 And since neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small storm was assailing us, from then on all hope of our being saved was gradually abandoned." 
Acts27:21 And when they had gone a long time without food, then Paul stood up in their midst and said, “Men, you ought to have followed my advice to not set sail from Crete and to avoid this damage and loss." 
Acts27:22 And now I advise you to be cheerful, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship." 
Acts27:23 For this very night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood before me," 
Acts27:24 saying, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar; and behold, God has granted you all those who are sailing with you.’" 
Acts27:25 Therefore, be cheerful, men, for I believe God that it will turn out exactly as I have been told." 
Acts27:26 But we must run aground on some island.” 
Acts27:27 But when the fourteenth night came, as we were being carried about in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors began to suspect that some land was approaching them." 
Acts27:28 And when they took soundings, they found it to be twenty fathoms; and a little farther on they took another sounding and found it to be fifteen fathoms." 
Acts27:29 And fearing that we might run aground somewhere on the rocks, they cast four anchors from the stern and were praying for daybreak." 
Acts27:30 But as the sailors were trying to escape from the ship and had let down the ship’s boat into the sea, on the pretense of intending to lay out anchors from the bow," 
Acts27:31 Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, “Unless these men remain in the ship, you yourselves cannot be saved.”" 
Acts27:32 Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the ship’s boat and let it fall away. 
Acts27:33 Until the day was about to dawn, Paul was encouraging them all to take some food, saying, “Today is the fourteenth day that you have been constantly watching and going without eating, having taken nothing." 
Acts27:34 Therefore I encourage you to take some food, for this is for your salvation, for not a hair from the head of any of you will perish.”" 
Acts27:35 And having said these things, he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of all. And he broke it and began to eat." 
Acts27:36 And all of them became cheerful and they themselves also took food. 
Acts27:37 And all of us in the ship were 276 persons. 
Acts27:38 And when they had eaten enough, they began to lighten the ship by throwing out the wheat into the sea." 
Acts27:39 Now when day came, they could not recognize the land; but they were noticing a bay with a beach, and they were resolving to drive the ship onto it if they could." 
Acts27:40 And casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea while at the same time they were loosening the ropes of the rudders. And hoisting the foresail to the wind, they were heading for the beach." 
Acts27:41 But striking a reef where two seas met, they ran the vessel aground; and the bow stuck fast and remained immovable, but the stern began to be broken up by the force of the waves." 
Acts27:42 Now the soldiers’ plan was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would swim away and escape;" 
Acts27:43 but the centurion, wanting to bring Paul safely through, kept them from their intention, and ordered that those who could swim should jump overboard first and get to land," 
Acts27:44 and the rest should follow, some on planks, and others on various things from the ship. And so it happened that they all were brought safely to land." 
Acts28:1 And when they had been brought safely through to shore, then we learned that the island was called Malta." 
Acts28:2 And the natives showed us extraordinary affection; for because of the rain that had set in and because of the cold, they kindled a fire and received us all." 
Acts28:3 But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened itself on his hand." 
Acts28:4 And when the natives saw the creature hanging from his hand, they began saying to one another, “Undoubtedly this man is a murderer, and though he has been saved from the sea, Justice has not allowed him to live.”" 
Acts28:5 However he shook the creature off into the fire and suffered no harm. 
Acts28:6 But they were waiting for him to soon swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they had waited a long time and had seen nothing unusual happen to him, changing their minds, they began to say that he was a god." 
Acts28:7 Now in the areas around that place were lands belonging to the leading man of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us and entertained us courteously three days." 
Acts28:8 And it happened that the father of Publius was lying afflicted with fever and dysentery; and Paul, going to see him and having prayed, laid his hands on him and healed him." 
Acts28:9 And after this had happened, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases were coming to him and being healed." 
Acts28:10 They also bestowed on us many honors of respect; and when we were setting sail, they supplied us with all we needed." 
Acts28:11 Now at the end of three months we set sail on an Alexandrian ship which had wintered at the island, and which had the Twin Brothers for its figurehead." 
Acts28:12 After we put into Syracuse, we stayed there for three days." 
Acts28:13 From there we sailed around and arrived at Rhegium, and after a day when a south wind sprang up, on the second day we came to Puteoli." 
Acts28:14 There we found some brothers, and were invited to stay with them for seven days; and thus we came to Rome." 
Acts28:15 And the brothers, when they heard about us, came from there as far as the Market of Appius and Three Inns to meet us. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage." 
Acts28:15 And the brothers, when they heard about us, came from there as far as the Market of Appius and Three Inns to meet us. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage." 
Acts28:16 And when we entered Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself, with the soldier who was guarding him." 
Acts28:17 And it happened that after three days Paul called together those who were the leading men of the Jews, and when they came together, he began saying to them, “Brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans." 
Acts28:17 And it happened that after three days Paul called together those who were the leading men of the Jews, and when they came together, he began saying to them, “Brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans." 
Acts28:18 And when they had examined me, they were willing to release me because there was no ground for putting me to death." 
Acts28:19 But when the Jews objected, I was forced to appeal to Caesar, not that I had any accusation against my nation." 
Acts28:20 For this reason, therefore, I requested to see you and to speak with you, for I am wearing this chain for the sake of the hope of Israel.”" 
Acts28:21 And they said to him, “We have neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers come here and reported or spoken anything bad about you." 
Acts28:21 And they said to him, “We have neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers come here and reported or spoken anything bad about you." 
Acts28:22 But we desire to hear from you what you think; for concerning this sect, it is known to us that it is spoken against everywhere.”" 
Acts28:23 And when they had set a day for Paul, they came to him at his lodging in large numbers; and he was explaining to them by solemnly bearing witness about the kingdom of God and trying to persuade them concerning Jesus, from both the Law of Moses and from the Prophets, from morning until evening." 
Acts28:24 And some were being persuaded by the things spoken, but others were not believing." 
Acts28:25 And when they disagreed with one another, they began leaving after Paul had spoken one word, “The Holy Spirit rightly spoke through Isaiah the prophet to your fathers," 
Acts28:26 saying, ‘Go to this people and say, “You will keep on hearing, but will not understand; And you will keep on seeing, but will not perceive;" 
Acts28:27 For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes; Lest they might see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with their heart and return, And I heal them.”’" 
Acts28:28 Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God was sent to the Gentiles—they will also hear.” 
Acts28:29 [When he had spoken these words, the Jews departed, having a great dispute among themselves.]" 
Acts28:30 And he stayed two full years in his own rented quarters and was welcoming all who came to him," 
Acts28:31 preaching the kingdom of God and teaching concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, unhindered." 
Romans1:1 Paul, a slave of Christ Jesus, called as an apostle, having been set apart for the gospel of God," 
Romans1:2 which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the holy Scriptures," 
Romans1:3 concerning His Son, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh," 
Romans1:4 who was designated as the Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord," 
Romans1:5 through whom we received grace and apostleship for the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles for the sake of His name," 
Romans1:6 among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ; 
Romans1:7 to all who are beloved of God in Rome, called as saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Romans1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, because your faith is being proclaimed throughout the whole world." 
Romans1:9 For God, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of His Son, is my witness as to how without ceasing I make mention of you," 
Romans1:10 always in my prayers earnestly asking, if perhaps now at last by the will of God I may succeed in coming to you." 
Romans1:11 For I long to see you so that I may impart some spiritual gift to you, that you may be strengthened;" 
Romans1:12 that is, to be mutually encouraged, while among you, by each other’s faith, both yours and mine." 
Romans1:13 I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that often I have planned to come to you (and have been prevented so far) so that I may have some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles." 
Romans1:14 I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish." 
Romans1:15 In this way, for my part, I am eager to proclaim the gospel to you also who are in Rome." 
Romans1:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek." 
Romans1:17 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith; as it is written, “But the righteous will live by faith.”" 
Romans1:18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness," 
Romans1:19 because that which is known about God is evident within them; for God made it evident to them. 
Romans1:20 For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes, both His eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse." 
Romans1:21 For even though they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish heart was darkened." 
Romans1:22 Professing to be wise, they became fools," 
Romans1:23 and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the likeness of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and crawling creatures. 
Romans1:24 Therefore God gave them over in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them." 
Romans1:25 For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen." 
Romans1:26 For this reason God gave them over to dishonorable passions; for their females exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural," 
Romans1:27 and in the same way also the males abandoned the natural function of the female and burned in their desire toward one another, males with males committing indecent acts and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error." 
Romans1:28 And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them over to an unfit mind, to do those things which are not proper," 
Romans1:29 having been filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice; they are gossips," 
Romans1:30 slanderers, haters of God, violent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents," 
Romans1:31 without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful;" 
Romans1:32 and although they know the righteous requirement of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them." 
Romans2:1 Therefore you are without excuse, O man, everyone who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things." 
Romans2:2 And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things. 
Romans2:3 But do you presume this, O man—who passes judgment on those who practice such things and does the same—that you will escape the judgment of God?" 
Romans2:4 Or do you think lightly of the riches of His kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance?" 
Romans2:5 But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God," 
Romans2:6 who will repay to each according to his works: 
Romans2:7 to those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life;" 
Romans2:8 but to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath and anger." 
Romans2:9 There will be affliction and turmoil for every soul of man who works out evil, of the Jew first and also of the Greek," 
Romans2:10 but glory and honor and peace to everyone who works good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek." 
Romans2:11 For there is no partiality with God. 
Romans2:12 For all who have sinned without the Law will also perish without the Law, and all who have sinned under the Law will be judged by the Law." 
Romans2:13 For it is not the hearers of the Law who are just before God, but the doers of the Law will be justified." 
Romans2:14 For when Gentiles who do not have the Law naturally do the things of the Law, these, not having the Law, are a law to themselves," 
Romans2:15 in that they demonstrate the work of the Law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them," 
Romans2:16 on the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus." 
Romans2:17 But if you bear the name “Jew” and rely upon the Law and boast in God," 
Romans2:18 and know His will and approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the Law," 
Romans2:19 and are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness," 
Romans2:20 a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of the immature, having in the Law the embodiment of knowledge and of the truth," 
Romans2:21 you, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that one shall not steal, do you steal?" 
Romans2:22 You who say that one should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?" 
Romans2:23 You who boast in the Law, through your transgression of the Law, do you dishonor God?" 
Romans2:24 For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,” just as it is written." 
Romans2:25 For indeed circumcision is of value if you practice the Law, but if you are a transgressor of the Law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision." 
Romans2:26 So if the uncircumcised man observes the righteous requirements of the Law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision?" 
Romans2:27 And he who is physically uncircumcised, if he fulfills the Law, will he not judge you who, through the letter of the Law and circumcision, are a transgressor of the Law?" 
Romans2:28 For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh." 
Romans2:29 But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; and his praise is not from men, but from God." 
Romans3:1 Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? 
Romans3:2 Great in every respect. First of all, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God." 
Romans3:3 What then? If some did not believe, does their unbelief abolish the faithfulness of God?" 
Romans3:4 May it never be! Rather, let God be true and every man a liar, as it is written, “That You may be justified in Your words, And overcome when You are judged.”" 
Romans3:5 But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is the God who inflicts wrath unrighteous? (I am speaking in human terms.)" 
Romans3:6 May it never be! For otherwise, how will God judge the world?" 
Romans3:7 But if through my lie the truth of God abounded to His glory, why am I also still being judged as a sinner?" 
Romans3:8 And why not say (as we are slanderously reported and as some claim that we say), “Let us do evil that good may come”? Their condemnation is just." 
Romans3:9 What then? Are we better? Not at all; for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin; 
Romans3:10 as it is written, “There is none righteous, not even one;" 
Romans3:11 There is none who understands, There is none who seeks for God;" 
Romans3:12 All have turned aside, together they have become worthless; There is none who does good, There is not even one.”" 
Romans3:13 “Their throat is an open tomb, With their tongues they keep deceiving,” “The poison of asps is under their lips”;" 
Romans3:14 “Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness”; 
Romans3:15 “Their feet are swift to shed blood," 
Romans3:16 Destruction and misery are in their paths," 
Romans3:17 And the path of peace they have not known.” 
Romans3:18 “There is no fear of God before their eyes.” 
Romans3:19 Now we know that whatever the Law says, it speaks to those who are in the Law, so that every mouth may be shut and all the world may become accountable to God;" 
Romans3:20 because by the works of the Law no flesh will be justified in His sight, for through the Law comes the knowledge of sin." 
Romans3:21 But now apart from the Law the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets," 
Romans3:22 even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe; for there is no distinction; 
Romans3:23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God," 
Romans3:24 being justified as a gift by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus; 
Romans3:25 whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in His blood through faith, for a demonstration of His righteousness, because in the forbearance of God He passed over the sins previously committed;" 
Romans3:26 for the demonstration of His righteousness at the present time, so that He would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus." 
Romans3:27 Where then is boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of faith." 
Romans3:28 For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the Law. 
Romans3:29 Or is God the God of Jews only? Is He not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also," 
Romans3:30 since indeed God, who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through that faith, is one." 
Romans3:31 Do we then abolish the Law through faith? May it never be! On the contrary, we establish the Law." 
Romans4:1 What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh, has found?" 
Romans4:2 For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about—but not before God!" 
Romans4:3 For what does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness.”" 
Romans4:4 Now to the one who works, his wage is not counted according to grace, but according to what is due." 
Romans4:5 But to the one who does not work, but believes upon Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness," 
Romans4:6 just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works: 
Romans4:7 “Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven, And whose sins have been covered." 
Romans4:8 Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account.” 
Romans4:9 Therefore, is this blessing on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also? For we say, “Faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness.”" 
Romans4:10 How then was it counted? While he was circumcised, or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised;" 
Romans4:11 and he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised, so that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, that righteousness might be counted to them," 
Romans4:12 and the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham which he had while uncircumcised." 
Romans4:13 For the promise to Abraham or to his seed that he would be heir of the world was not through the Law, but through the righteousness of faith." 
Romans4:14 For if those who are of the Law are heirs, faith has been made empty and the promise has been abolished;" 
Romans4:15 for the Law brings about wrath, but where there is no law, there also is no trespass." 
Romans4:16 For this reason it is by faith, in order that it may be according to grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the seed, not only to those who are of the Law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all—" 
Romans4:17 as it is written, “A father of many nations have I made you”—in the presence of Him whom he believed, even God, who gives life to the dead and calls into being that which does not exist." 
Romans4:18 In hope against hope he believed, so that he might become a father of many nations according to that which had been spoken, “So shall your seed be.”" 
Romans4:19 And without becoming weak in faith he contemplated his own body, now as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Sarah’s womb;" 
Romans4:20 yet, with respect to the promise of God, he did not waver in unbelief but grew strong in faith, giving glory to God," 
Romans4:21 and being fully assured that what God had promised, He was able also to do." 
Romans4:22 Therefore it was also counted to him as righteousness. 
Romans4:23 Now not for his sake only was it written that it was counted to him," 
Romans4:24 but for our sake also, to whom it will be counted, as those who believe upon Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead," 
Romans4:25 He who was delivered over on account of our transgressions, and was raised on account of our justification." 
Romans5:1 Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Romans5:2 through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand; and we boast in hope of the glory of God. 
Romans5:3 And not only this, but we also boast in our afflictions, knowing that affliction brings about perseverance;" 
Romans5:4 and perseverance, proven character; and proven character, hope;" 
Romans5:5 and hope does not put to shame, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us." 
Romans5:6 For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly." 
Romans5:7 For one will hardly die for a righteous man, though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die." 
Romans5:8 But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us." 
Romans5:9 Much more then, having now been justified by His blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through Him." 
Romans5:10 For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by His life." 
Romans5:11 And not only this, but we also boast in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation." 
Romans5:12 Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men, because all sinned—" 
Romans5:13 for until the Law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law." 
Romans5:14 Nevertheless death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the trespass of Adam, who is a type of Him who was to come." 
Romans5:15 But the gracious gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many." 
Romans5:16 And the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned; for on the one hand the judgment arose from one transgression resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand the gracious gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification." 
Romans5:17 For if by the transgression of the one, death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ." 
Romans5:18 So then as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men, even so through one act of righteousness there resulted justification of life to all men." 
Romans5:19 For as through the one man’s disobedience the many were appointed sinners, even so through the obedience of the One the many will be appointed righteous." 
Romans5:20 Now the Law came in so that the transgression would increase, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more," 
Romans5:21 so that, as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Romans6:1 What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? 
Romans6:2 May it never be! How shall we who died to sin still live in it? 
Romans6:3 Or do you not know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into His death? 
Romans6:4 Therefore we were buried with Him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life." 
Romans6:5 For if we have become united with Him in the likeness of His death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of His resurrection," 
Romans6:6 knowing this, that our old man was crucified with Him, in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin;" 
Romans6:7 for he who has died has been justified from sin. 
Romans6:8 Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with Him," 
Romans6:9 knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again; death no longer is master over Him." 
Romans6:10 For the death that He died, He died to sin once for all, but the life that He lives, He lives to God." 
Romans6:11 Even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus." 
Romans6:12 Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lusts," 
Romans6:13 and do not go on presenting your members to sin as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God." 
Romans6:14 For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under law but under grace." 
Romans6:15 What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace? May it never be! 
Romans6:16 Do you not know that when you go on presenting yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness?" 
Romans6:17 But thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you obeyed from the heart that pattern of teaching to which you were given over," 
Romans6:18 and having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness." 
Romans6:19 I am speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading to further lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness, leading to sanctification." 
Romans6:20 For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness." 
Romans6:21 Therefore what benefit were you then having from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. 
Romans6:22 But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you have your benefit, leading to sanctification, and the end, eternal life." 
Romans6:23 For the wages of sin is death, but the gracious gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord." 
Romans7:1 Or do you not know, brothers—for I am speaking to those who know the law—that the law is master over a person as long as he lives?" 
Romans7:2 For the married woman has been bound by law to her husband while he is living, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband." 
Romans7:3 So then, if while her husband is living she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress though she is joined to another man." 
Romans7:4 So, my brothers, you also were made to die to the Law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to Him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God." 
Romans7:5 For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were aroused by the Law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death." 
Romans7:6 But now we have been released from the Law, having died to that by which we were constrained, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in oldness of the letter." 
Romans7:7 What shall we say then? Is the Law sin? May it never be! Rather, I would not have come to know sin except through the Law. For I would not have known about coveting if the Law had not said, “You shall not covet.”" 
Romans7:8 But sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, worked out in me coveting of every kind. For apart from the Law sin is dead." 
Romans7:9 Now I was once alive apart from the Law, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died;" 
Romans7:10 and this commandment, which was to lead to life, was found to lead to death for me." 
Romans7:11 For sin, taking an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me." 
Romans7:12 So, the Law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good." 
Romans7:13 Therefore did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be! Rather it was sin, in order that it might be shown to be sin by working out my death through that which is good, so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful." 
Romans7:14 For we know that the Law is spiritual, but I am fleshly, having been sold into bondage under sin." 
Romans7:15 For what I am working out, I do not understand; for I am not practicing what I would like to do, but I am doing the very thing I hate." 
Romans7:16 But if I do the very thing I do not want, I agree with the Law, that it is good." 
Romans7:17 So now, no longer am I the one working it out, but sin which dwells in me." 
Romans7:18 For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh; for the willing is present in me, but the working out of the good is not." 
Romans7:19 For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want." 
Romans7:20 But if I am doing the very thing I do not want, I am no longer the one working it out, but sin which dwells in me." 
Romans7:21 I find then the principle that in me evil is present—in me who wants to do good. 
Romans7:22 For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man," 
Romans7:23 but I see a different law in my members, waging war against the law of my mind and making me a captive to the law of sin which is in my members." 
Romans7:24 Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death? 
Romans7:25 Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, on the one hand I myself with my mind am serving the law of God, but on the other, with my flesh the law of sin." 
Romans8:1 Therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. 
Romans8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. 
Romans8:3 For what the Law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did: sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and as an offering for sin, He condemned sin in the flesh," 
Romans8:4 so that the righteous requirement of the Law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit." 
Romans8:5 For those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit." 
Romans8:6 For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the Spirit is life and peace," 
Romans8:7 because the mind set on the flesh is at enmity toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so," 
Romans8:8 and those who are in the flesh are not able to please God. 
Romans8:9 However, you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Him." 
Romans8:10 But if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of righteousness." 
Romans8:11 But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who dwells in you." 
Romans8:12 So then, brothers, we are under obligation, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh—" 
Romans8:13 for if you are living according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you are putting to death the practices of the body, you will live." 
Romans8:14 For as many as are being led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God." 
Romans8:15 For you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry out, “Abba! Father!”" 
Romans8:16 The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God," 
Romans8:17 and if children, also heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him so that we may also be glorified with Him." 
Romans8:18 For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. 
Romans8:19 For the anxious longing of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. 
Romans8:20 For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of Him who subjected it, in hope" 
Romans8:21 that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. 
Romans8:22 For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. 
Romans8:23 And not only this, but also we ourselves, having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our body." 
Romans8:24 For in hope we were saved, but hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he already sees?" 
Romans8:25 But if we hope for what we do not see, with perseverance we eagerly wait for it." 
Romans8:26 And in the same way the Spirit also helps our weakness, for we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words;" 
Romans8:27 and He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to the will of God." 
Romans8:28 And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to His purpose." 
Romans8:29 Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestined to become conformed to the image of His Son, so that He would be the firstborn among many brothers;" 
Romans8:30 and those whom He predestined, He also called; and those whom He called, He also justified; and those whom He justified, He also glorified." 
Romans8:31 What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us?" 
Romans8:32 He who indeed did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him over for us all, how will He not also with Him graciously give us all things?" 
Romans8:33 Who will bring a charge against God’s elect? God is the one who justifies; 
Romans8:34 who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is He who died, yes, rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us." 
Romans8:35 Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will affliction, or turmoil, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?" 
Romans8:36 Just as it is written, “For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; We were counted as sheep for the slaughter.”" 
Romans8:37 But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through Him who loved us. 
Romans8:38 For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers," 
Romans8:39 nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord." 
Romans9:1 I am telling the truth in Christ, I am not lying, my conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit," 
Romans9:2 that I have great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart. 
Romans9:3 For I could wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh," 
Romans9:4 who are Israelites, to whom belongs the adoption as sons, and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the Law and the temple service and the promises," 
Romans9:5 whose are the fathers, and from whom is the Christ according to the flesh, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen." 
Romans9:6 But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel; 
Romans9:7 nor are they all children because they are Abraham’s seed, but: “through Isaac your seed will be named.”" 
Romans9:8 That is, the children of the flesh are not the children of God, but the children of the promise are considered as seed." 
Romans9:9 For this is the word of promise: “At this time I will come, and Sarah shall have a son.”" 
Romans9:10 And not only this, but there was Rebekah also, when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac;" 
Romans9:11 for though the twins were not yet born and had not done anything good or bad, so that the purpose of God according to His choice would stand, not because of works but because of Him who calls," 
Romans9:12 it was said to her, “The older shall serve the younger.”" 
Romans9:13 Just as it is written, “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”" 
Romans9:14 What shall we say then? Is there any unrighteousness with God? May it never be! 
Romans9:15 For He says to Moses, “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”" 
Romans9:16 So then it does not depend on the one who wills or the one who runs, but on God who has mercy." 
Romans9:17 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this very purpose I raised you up, in order to demonstrate My power in you, and in order that My name might be proclaimed throughout the whole earth.”" 
Romans9:18 So then He has mercy on whom He desires, and He hardens whom He desires." 
Romans9:19 You will say to me then, “Why does He still find fault? For who resists His will?”" 
Romans9:20 On the contrary, who are you, O man, who answers back to God? Will the thing molded say to the molder, “Why did you make me like this”?" 
Romans9:21 Or does not the potter have authority over the clay, to make from the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use?" 
Romans9:22 And what if God, wanting to demonstrate His wrath and to make His power known, endured with much patience vessels of wrath having been prepared for destruction," 
Romans9:23 and in order that He might make known the riches of His glory upon vessels of mercy, which He prepared beforehand for glory—" 
Romans9:24 even us, whom He also called, not from among Jews only, but also from among Gentiles?" 
Romans9:25 As He says also in Hosea, “I will call those who were not My people, ‘My people,’ And her who was not beloved, ‘beloved.’”" 
Romans9:26 “And it shall be that in the place where it was said to them, ‘you are not My people,’ There they shall be called sons of the living God.”" 
Romans9:27 And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, “Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that will be saved;" 
Romans9:28 for the Lord will execute His word on the land, thoroughly and quickly.”" 
Romans9:29 And just as Isaiah foretold, “Unless the Lord of Sabaoth had left to us a seed, We would have become like Sodom, and would have resembled Gomorrah.”" 
Romans9:30 What shall we say then? That Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, laid hold of righteousness, even the righteousness which is by faith;" 
Romans9:31 but Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not attain that law." 
Romans9:32 Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as though it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone," 
Romans9:33 just as it is written, “Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, And the one who believes upon Him will not be put to shame.”" 
Romans10:1 Brothers, my heart’s desire and my prayer to God for them is for their salvation." 
Romans10:2 For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge." 
Romans10:3 For not knowing about the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God." 
Romans10:4 For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. 
Romans10:5 For Moses writes about the righteousness which is of law: “The man who does these things shall live by them.” 
Romans10:6 But the righteousness of faith speaks in this way: “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will go up into heaven?’ (that is, to bring Christ down)," 
Romans10:7 or ‘Who will go down into the abyss?’ (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead).”" 
Romans10:8 But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart”—that is, the word of faith which we are preaching," 
Romans10:9 that if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved;" 
Romans10:10 for with the heart a person believes, leading to righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, leading to salvation." 
Romans10:11 For the Scripture says, “Whoever believes upon Him will not be put to shame.”" 
Romans10:12 For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call on Him," 
Romans10:13 for “Whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.” 
Romans10:14 How then will they call on Him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in Him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? 
Romans10:15 And how will they preach unless they are sent? Just as it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who proclaim good news of good things!”" 
Romans10:16 However, they did not all heed the good news, for Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our report?”" 
Romans10:17 So faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ." 
Romans10:18 But I say, have they never heard? On the contrary, they have; “Their voice has gone out into all the earth, And their words to the ends of the world.”" 
Romans10:19 But I say, did Israel not know? First Moses says, “I will make you jealous by that which is not a nation, By a nation without understanding will I anger you.”" 
Romans10:20 And Isaiah is very bold and says, “I was found by those who did not seek Me, I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me.”" 
Romans10:21 But as for Israel He says, “All day long I have stretched out My hands to a disobedient and obstinate people.”" 
Romans11:1 I say then, has God rejected His people? May it never be! For I too am an Israelite, a seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin." 
Romans11:2 God has not rejected His people whom He foreknew. Or do you not know what the Scripture says in the passage about Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel?" 
Romans11:3 “Lord, they have killed Your prophets, they have torn down Your altars, and I alone am left, and they are seeking my life.”" 
Romans11:4 But what does the divine response say to him? “I have left for Myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.” 
Romans11:5 In this way then, at the present time, a remnant according to God’s gracious choice has also come to be." 
Romans11:6 But if it is by grace, it is no longer of works, otherwise grace is no longer grace." 
Romans11:7 What then? What Israel is seeking, it has not obtained, but the chosen obtained it, and the rest were hardened;" 
Romans11:8 just as it is written, “God gave them a spirit of stupor, Eyes to see not and ears to hear not, Down to this very day.”" 
Romans11:9 And David says, “Let their table become a snare and a trap, And a stumbling block and a retribution to them." 
Romans11:10 Let their eyes be darkened to see not, And bend their backs forever.”" 
Romans11:11 I say then, did they stumble so as to fall? May it never be! But by their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make them jealous." 
Romans11:12 Now if their transgression is riches for the world and their failure is riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their fullness be!" 
Romans11:13 But I am speaking to you who are Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle of Gentiles, I magnify my ministry," 
Romans11:14 if somehow I might move to jealousy my fellow countrymen and save some of them. 
Romans11:15 For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead?" 
Romans11:16 And if the first piece of dough is holy, the lump is also; and if the root is holy, the branches are too." 
Romans11:17 But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them and became a partaker with them of the rich root of the olive tree," 
Romans11:18 do not boast against the branches. But if you do boast against them, remember that it is not you who supports the root, but the root supports you." 
Romans11:19 You will say then, “Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.”" 
Romans11:20 Quite right! They were broken off for their unbelief, but you stand by your faith. Do not be haughty, but fear," 
Romans11:21 for if God did not spare the natural branches, He will not spare you, either." 
Romans11:22 Behold then the kindness and severity of God; to those who fell, severity, but to you, God’s kindness, if you continue in His kindness; otherwise you also will be cut off." 
Romans11:23 And they also, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again." 
Romans11:24 For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree?" 
Romans11:25 For I do not want you, brothers, to be uninformed of this mystery—so that you will not be wise in your own estimation—that a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in;" 
Romans11:26 and so all Israel will be saved; just as it is written, “The Deliverer will come from Zion, He will remove ungodliness from Jacob.”" 
Romans11:27 “And this is My covenant with them, When I take away their sins.”" 
Romans11:28 From the standpoint of the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but from the standpoint of God’s choice they are beloved for the sake of the fathers;" 
Romans11:29 for the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. 
Romans11:30 For just as you once were disobedient to God, but now have been shown mercy because of their disobedience," 
Romans11:31 so these also now have been disobedient, that because of the mercy shown to you they also may now be shown mercy." 
Romans11:32 For God has shut up all in disobedience so that He may show mercy to all. 
Romans11:33 Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments and unfathomable His ways!" 
Romans11:34 For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who became His counselor?" 
Romans11:35 Or who has first given to Him that it might be repaid to him? 
Romans11:36 For from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen. 
Romans12:1 Therefore I exhort you, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a sacrifice—living, holy, and pleasing to God, which is your spiritual service of worship." 
Romans12:2 And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may approve what the will of God is, that which is good and pleasing and perfect." 
Romans12:3 For through the grace given to me I say to each one among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think; but to think so as to have sound thinking, as God has allotted to each a measure of faith." 
Romans12:4 For just as we have many members in one body and all the members do not have the same function," 
Romans12:5 so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another," 
Romans12:6 but having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us: whether prophecy, in agreement with the faith;" 
Romans12:7 or service, in his serving; or he who teaches, in his teaching;" 
Romans12:8 or he who exhorts, in his exhortation; he who gives, with generosity; he who leads, with diligence; he who shows mercy, with cheerfulness." 
Romans12:9 Let love be without hypocrisy—by abhorring what is evil, clinging to what is good," 
Romans12:10 being devoted to one another in brotherly love, giving preference to one another in honor," 
Romans12:11 not lagging behind in diligence, being fervent in spirit, serving the Lord," 
Romans12:12 rejoicing in hope, persevering in affliction, being devoted to prayer," 
Romans12:13 contributing to the needs of the saints, pursuing hospitality." 
Romans12:14 Bless those who persecute you; bless, and do not curse." 
Romans12:15 Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep," 
Romans12:16 by being of the same mind toward one another, not being haughty in mind, but associating with the humble. Do not be wise in your own mind." 
Romans12:17 Never paying back evil for evil to anyone, respecting what is good in the sight of all men," 
Romans12:18 if possible, so far as it depends on you, being at peace with all men," 
Romans12:19 never taking your own revenge, beloved—instead leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written, “Vengeance is Mine, I will repay,” says the Lord." 
Romans12:20 “But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, and if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.”" 
Romans12:21 Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good." 
Romans13:1 Every person is to be in subjection to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those which exist have been appointed by God." 
Romans13:2 Therefore whoever resists that authority has opposed the ordinance of God; and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves. 
Romans13:3 For rulers are not a cause of fear for good behavior, but for evil. Do you want to have no fear of that authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same;" 
Romans13:4 for it is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid; for it does not bear the sword in vain, for it is a minister of God, an avenger who brings wrath on the one who practices evil." 
Romans13:5 Therefore it is necessary to be in subjection, not only because of that wrath, but also because of conscience." 
Romans13:6 For because of this you also pay taxes, for rulers are servants of God, devoting themselves to this very thing." 
Romans13:7 Render to all what is due them: tax to whom tax is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honor to whom honor. 
Romans13:8 Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law. 
Romans13:9 For this, “You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,” and if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this word, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”" 
Romans13:10 Love does not work evil against a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the Law. 
Romans13:11 And do this, knowing the time, that it is already the hour for you to awaken from sleep; for now salvation is nearer to us than when we believed." 
Romans13:12 The night is almost gone, and the day is at hand. Therefore let us lay aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light." 
Romans13:13 Let us walk properly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality, not in strife and jealousy." 
Romans13:14 But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lusts." 
Romans14:1 Now accept the one who is weak in faith, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on opinions." 
Romans14:2 One person has faith that he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables only." 
Romans14:3 The one who eats must not view the one who does not eat with contempt, and the one who does not eat must not judge the one who eats, for God accepted him." 
Romans14:4 Who are you to judge the servant of another? To his own master he stands or falls; and he will stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand." 
Romans14:5 One person judges one day above another, another judges every day alike. Each person must be fully convinced in his own mind." 
Romans14:6 He who regards the day, regards it for the Lord, and he who eats, eats for the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat, for the Lord he does not eat and gives thanks to God." 
Romans14:7 For not one of us lives for himself, and not one dies for himself;" 
Romans14:8 for if we live, we live for the Lord, or if we die, we die for the Lord; therefore whether we live or die, we are the Lord’s." 
Romans14:9 For to this end Christ died and lived again, that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living." 
Romans14:10 But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you again, why do you view your brother with contempt? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God." 
Romans14:11 For it is written, “As I live, says the Lord, to Me every knee shall bow, And every tongue shall confess to God.”" 
Romans14:12 So then each one of us will give an account of himself to God. 
Romans14:13 Therefore let us not judge one another anymore, but rather judge this—not to put a stumbling block or offense before a brother." 
Romans14:14 I know and am convinced in the Lord Jesus that nothing is defiled in itself; but to him who considers anything to be defiled, to him it is defiled." 
Romans14:15 For if because of food your brother is grieved, you are no longer walking according to love. Do not destroy with your food him for whom Christ died." 
Romans14:16 Therefore do not let what is for you a good thing be slandered; 
Romans14:17 for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit." 
Romans14:18 For he who in this way serves Christ is pleasing to God and approved by men. 
Romans14:19 So then let us pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another. 
Romans14:20 Do not tear down the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but they are evil for the man who eats and gives offense." 
Romans14:21 It is good not to eat meat or to drink wine, or to do anything by which your brother stumbles." 
Romans14:22 The faith which you have, have as your own conviction before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in what he approves." 
Romans14:23 But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because his eating is not from faith; and whatever is not from faith is sin." 
Romans15:1 Now we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those without strength and not just please ourselves. 
Romans15:2 Each of us is to please his neighbor for his good, to his building up." 
Romans15:3 For even Christ did not please Himself; but as it is written, “The reproaches of those who reproached You fell on Me.”" 
Romans15:4 For whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction, so that through the perseverance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope." 
Romans15:5 Now may the God of perseverance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind with one another according to Christ Jesus," 
Romans15:6 so that with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Romans15:7 Therefore, accept one another, just as Christ also accepted us to the glory of God." 
Romans15:8 For I say that Christ has become a servant to the circumcision on behalf of the truth of God to confirm the promises given to the fathers," 
Romans15:9 and for the Gentiles to glorify God for His mercy; as it is written, “Therefore I will give praise to You among the Gentiles, And I will sing to Your name.”" 
Romans15:10 And again he says, “Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people.”" 
Romans15:11 And again, “Praise the Lord all you Gentiles, And let all the peoples praise Him.”" 
Romans15:12 And again Isaiah says, “There shall come the root of Jesse, And He who arises to rule over the Gentiles, In Him shall the Gentiles hope.”" 
Romans15:13 Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you will abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit." 
Romans15:14 But I myself am also convinced about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, having been filled with all knowledge and being able also to admonish one another." 
Romans15:15 But I have written very boldly to you on some points so as to remind you again, because of the grace that was given me by God" 
Romans15:16 for me to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, ministering as a priest the gospel of God, so that my offering of the Gentiles may become acceptable, having been sanctified by the Holy Spirit." 
Romans15:17 Therefore in Christ Jesus I have reason for boasting in things pertaining to God. 
Romans15:18 For I will not be bold to speak of anything except what Christ has brought about through me, leading to the obedience of the Gentiles by word and deed," 
Romans15:19 in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit; so that from Jerusalem and all around as far as Illyricum I have fully preached the gospel of Christ." 
Romans15:20 And in this way I make it my ambition to proclaim the gospel, not where Christ was already named, so that I would not build on another man’s foundation;" 
Romans15:21 but as it is written, “They who had no declaration of Him shall see, And they who have not heard shall understand.”" 
Romans15:22 For this reason I have often been prevented from coming to you; 
Romans15:23 but now, with no further place for me in these regions, and since I have had for many years a longing to come to you" 
Romans15:24 whenever I go to Spain—for I hope, passing through, to see you, and to be helped on my way there by you, when I have first enjoyed your company for a while." 
Romans15:25 But now I am going to Jerusalem to serve the saints. 
Romans15:26 For Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to share with the poor among the saints in Jerusalem. 
Romans15:27 Yes, they were pleased to do so, and they are indebted to them. For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they are indebted to minister to them also in material things." 
Romans15:28 Therefore, when I have completed this and have put my seal on this fruit of theirs, I will go on by way of you to Spain." 
Romans15:29 And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ." 
Romans15:30 Now I urge you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God for me," 
Romans15:31 that I may be rescued from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may prove acceptable to the saints;" 
Romans15:31 that I may be rescued from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may prove acceptable to the saints;" 
Romans15:32 so that I may come to you in joy by the will of God and find rest in your company. 
Romans15:33 Now may the God of peace be with you all. Amen. 
Romans16:1 Now I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea;" 
Romans16:2 that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and that you help her in whatever matter she may have need of you; for she herself has also been a benefactor of many, and of myself as well." 
Romans16:3 Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus," 
Romans16:4 who for my life risked their own necks, to whom not only do I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;" 
Romans16:5 also greet the church that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first convert to Christ from Asia." 
Romans16:6 Greet Mary, who has labored much for you." 
Romans16:7 Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners, who are outstanding to the apostles, who also were in Christ before me." 
Romans16:8 Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord." 
Romans16:9 Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys my beloved." 
Romans16:10 Greet Apelles, the approved in Christ. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus." 
Romans16:11 Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord." 
Romans16:12 Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, laborers in the Lord. Greet Persis the beloved, who labored much in the Lord." 
Romans16:13 Greet Rufus, a choice man in the Lord, also his mother and mine." 
Romans16:14 Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas and the brothers with them." 
Romans16:15 Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them." 
Romans16:16 Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you. 
Romans16:17 Now I urge you, brothers, to keep your eye on those who cause dissensions and stumblings contrary to the teaching which you learned, and turn away from them." 
Romans16:18 For such men are slaves, not of our Lord Christ but of their own stomach, and by their smooth and flattering speech they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting." 
Romans16:19 For the report of your obedience has reached to all. Therefore I am rejoicing over you, but I want you to be wise in what is good and innocent in what is evil." 
Romans16:20 And the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you. 
Romans16:21 Timothy my fellow worker greets you, and so do Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen." 
Romans16:22 I, Tertius, who wrote this letter, greet you in the Lord." 
Romans16:23 Gaius, host to me and to the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer greets you, and Quartus, the brother." 
Romans16:24 [The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.] 
Romans16:25 Now to Him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery which has been kept secret for long ages past," 
Romans16:26 but now is manifested, and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, has been made known to all the Gentiles, leading to obedience of faith;" 
Romans16:27 to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, be the glory forever. Amen." 
1Corinthians1:1 Paul, called as an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother," 
1Corinthians1:2 To the church of God which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, called as saints, with all who in every place call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours:" 
1Corinthians1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
1Corinthians1:4 I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus," 
1Corinthians1:5 that in everything you were enriched in Him, in all word and all knowledge," 
1Corinthians1:6 even as the witness about Christ was confirmed in you," 
1Corinthians1:7 so that you are not lacking in any gift, eagerly awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Corinthians1:8 who will also confirm you to the end, beyond reproach in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians1:9 God is faithful, through whom you were called into fellowship with His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord." 
1Corinthians1:10 Now I exhort you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be made complete in the same mind and in the same judgment." 
1Corinthians1:11 For I have been informed concerning you, my brothers, by Chloe’s people, that there are quarrels among you." 
1Corinthians1:12 Now I mean this, that each one of you is saying, “I am of Paul,” and “I of Apollos,” and “I of Cephas,” and “I of Christ.”" 
1Corinthians1:13 Has Christ been divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? 
1Corinthians1:14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius," 
1Corinthians1:15 so that no one would say you were baptized in my name. 
1Corinthians1:16 Now I did baptize also the household of Stephanas; beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized any other." 
1Corinthians1:17 For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to proclaim the gospel, not in wisdom of word, so that the cross of Christ will not be made empty." 
1Corinthians1:18 For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God." 
1Corinthians1:19 For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, And the cleverness of the clever I will set aside.”" 
1Corinthians1:20 Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? 
1Corinthians1:21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well-pleased, through the foolishness of the message preached, to save those who believe." 
1Corinthians1:22 For indeed Jews ask for signs and Greeks search for wisdom," 
1Corinthians1:23 but we preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block and to Gentiles foolishness," 
1Corinthians1:24 but to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God." 
1Corinthians1:25 Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men." 
1Corinthians1:26 For consider your calling, brothers, that there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble." 
1Corinthians1:27 But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong," 
1Corinthians1:28 and the base things of the world and the despised God has chosen, the things that are not, so that He may abolish the things that are," 
1Corinthians1:29 so that no flesh may boast before God. 
1Corinthians1:30 But by His doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption," 
1Corinthians1:31 so that, just as it is written, “Let him who boasts, boast in the Lord.”" 
1Corinthians2:1 And when I came to you, brothers, I did not come with superiority of word or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the witness of God." 
1Corinthians2:2 For I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ, and Him crucified." 
1Corinthians2:3 And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling," 
1Corinthians2:4 and my word and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power," 
1Corinthians2:5 so that your faith would not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." 
1Corinthians2:6 Yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature, a wisdom, however, not of this age nor of the rulers of this age, who are being abolished." 
1Corinthians2:7 But we speak God’s wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom which has been hidden, which God predestined before the ages to our glory," 
1Corinthians2:8 which none of the rulers of this age has understood; for if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory." 
1Corinthians2:9 But just as it is written, “Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard, And which have not entered the heart of man, All that God has prepared for those who love Him.”" 
1Corinthians2:10 But to us God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God." 
1Corinthians2:11 For who among men knows the depths of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so the depths of God no one knows except the Spirit of God. 
1Corinthians2:12 Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the depths graciously given to us by God," 
1Corinthians2:13 of which depths we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual depths with spiritual words." 
1Corinthians2:14 But a natural man does not accept the depths of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually examined." 
1Corinthians2:15 But he who is spiritual examines all things, yet he himself is examined by no one." 
1Corinthians2:16 For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he will direct Him? But we have the mind of Christ." 
1Corinthians3:1 And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshly men, as to infants in Christ." 
1Corinthians3:2 I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are still not able," 
1Corinthians3:3 for you are still fleshly. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly, and are you not walking like mere men?" 
1Corinthians3:4 For when one says, “I am of Paul,” and another, “I am of Apollos,” are you not mere men?" 
1Corinthians3:5 What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to each one." 
1Corinthians3:6 I planted, Apollos watered, but God was causing the growth." 
1Corinthians3:7 So then neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but God who causes the growth." 
1Corinthians3:8 Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor." 
1Corinthians3:9 For we are God’s fellow workers; you are God’s field, God’s building." 
1Corinthians3:10 According to the grace of God which was given to me, like a wise master builder I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it." 
1Corinthians3:11 For no one can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ." 
1Corinthians3:12 Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw," 
1Corinthians3:13 each man’s work will become evident, for the day will indicate it because it is revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man’s work." 
1Corinthians3:14 If any man’s work which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward." 
1Corinthians3:15 If any man’s work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire." 
1Corinthians3:16 Do you not know that you are a sanctuary of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? 
1Corinthians3:17 If any man destroys the sanctuary of God, God will destroy him, for the sanctuary of God is holy, and that is what you are." 
1Corinthians3:18 Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you thinks that he is wise in this age, he must become foolish, so that he may become wise." 
1Corinthians3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written, “He is the one who catches the wise in their craftiness”;" 
1Corinthians3:20 and again, “The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are useless.”" 
1Corinthians3:21 So then let no one boast in men. For all things belong to you," 
1Corinthians3:22 whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come; all things belong to you," 
1Corinthians3:23 and you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God." 
1Corinthians4:1 Let a man consider us in this manner, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God." 
1Corinthians4:2 In this case, moreover, it is required of stewards that one be found faithful." 
1Corinthians4:3 But to me it is a very small thing that I may be examined by you, or by any human court. In fact, I do not even examine myself." 
1Corinthians4:4 For I am conscious of nothing against myself, yet I am not by this acquitted. But the one who examines me is the Lord." 
1Corinthians4:5 Therefore do not go on passing judgment before the time, but wait until the Lord comes who will both bring to light the things hidden in the darkness and make manifest the motives of hearts. And then each one’s praise will come to him from God." 
1Corinthians4:6 Now these things, brothers, I have applied to myself and Apollos for your sakes, so that in us you may learn not to go beyond what is written, so that no one of you will become puffed up on behalf of one against the other." 
1Corinthians4:7 For who regards you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it?" 
1Corinthians4:8 You are already filled, you have already become rich, you have ruled without us—and how I wish that you had ruled indeed so that we also might rule with you." 
1Corinthians4:9 For, I think that God has exhibited us apostles last of all, as men condemned to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, and to angels, and to men." 
1Corinthians4:10 We are fools for the sake of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ! We are weak, but you are strong! You are glorious, but we are without honor!" 
1Corinthians4:11 To this present hour we hunger and thirst, and are poorly clothed, and roughly treated, and homeless;" 
1Corinthians4:12 and we labor, working with our own hands; when we are reviled, we bless; when we are persecuted, we endure;" 
1Corinthians4:13 when we are slandered, we try to plead; we have become as the scum of the world, the grime of all things, even until now." 
1Corinthians4:14 I do not write these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved children." 
1Corinthians4:15 For if you were to have countless tutors in Christ, yet you would not have many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I became your father through the gospel." 
1Corinthians4:16 Therefore I exhort you, be imitators of me." 
1Corinthians4:17 For this reason I have sent to you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, and who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, just as I teach everywhere in every church." 
1Corinthians4:18 Now some have become puffed up, as though I were not coming to you." 
1Corinthians4:19 But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I shall know, not the words of those who are puffed up but their power." 
1Corinthians4:20 For the kingdom of God does not consist in words but in power. 
1Corinthians4:21 What do you desire? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of gentleness?" 
1Corinthians5:1 It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and sexual immorality of such a kind as does not exist even among the Gentiles, that someone has his father’s wife." 
1Corinthians5:2 And you have become puffed up and have not mourned instead, so that the one who had done this deed would be removed from your midst." 
1Corinthians5:3 For I, on my part, though absent in body but present in spirit, have already judged him who has so committed this, as though I were present:" 
1Corinthians5:4 in the name of our Lord Jesus, when you are assembled, and I with you in spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus," 
1Corinthians5:5 deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord." 
1Corinthians5:6 Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? 
1Corinthians5:7 Clean out the old leaven so that you may be a new lump, just as you are in fact unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, also was sacrificed." 
1Corinthians5:8 Therefore let us celebrate the feast, not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth." 
1Corinthians5:9 I wrote you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people; 
1Corinthians5:10 I did not at all mean with the sexually immoral people of this world, or with the greedy and swindlers, or with idolaters, for then you would have to go out of the world." 
1Corinthians5:11 But now I am writing to you not to associate with any so-called brother if he is a sexually immoral person, or greedy, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or a swindler—not even to eat with such a one." 
1Corinthians5:12 For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Are you not to judge those who are within the church? 
1Corinthians5:13 But those who are outside, God will judge. Remove the wicked man from among yourselves." 
1Corinthians6:1 Does any one of you, when he has a case against another, dare to be tried before the unrighteous and not before the saints?" 
1Corinthians6:2 Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? If the world is judged by you, are you not worthy to constitute the smallest law courts?" 
1Corinthians6:3 Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more matters of this life? 
1Corinthians6:4 So if you have law courts dealing with matters of this life, do you appoint those who are of no account in the church as judges?" 
1Corinthians6:5 I say this to your shame. Is it really this way: there is not one wise man among you who will be able to pass judgment between his brothers? 
1Corinthians6:6 On the contrary, brother is tried with brother, and that before unbelievers!" 
1Corinthians6:7 Actually, then, it is already a failure for you, that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?" 
1Corinthians6:8 On the contrary, you yourselves wrong and defraud. You do this even to your brothers." 
1Corinthians6:9 Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived; neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals," 
1Corinthians6:10 nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers, will inherit the kingdom of God." 
1Corinthians6:11 And such were some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God." 
1Corinthians6:12 All things are lawful for me, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be mastered by anything." 
1Corinthians6:13 Food is for the stomach and the stomach is for food, but God will do away with both of them. Yet the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body." 
1Corinthians6:14 Now God has not only raised the Lord, but will also raise us up through His power." 
1Corinthians6:15 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? May it never be! 
1Corinthians6:16 Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute is one body with her? For He says, “The two shall become one flesh.”" 
1Corinthians6:17 But the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with Him. 
1Corinthians6:18 Flee sexual immorality. Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral man sins against his own body." 
1Corinthians6:19 Or do you not know that your body is a sanctuary of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own?" 
1Corinthians6:20 For you were bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body. 
1Corinthians7:1 Now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman." 
1Corinthians7:2 But because of sexual immoralities, each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband." 
1Corinthians7:3 The husband must fulfill his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband." 
1Corinthians7:4 The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; and likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does." 
1Corinthians7:5 Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control." 
1Corinthians7:6 But this I say as a concession, not as a command." 
1Corinthians7:7 Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. However, each man has his own gift from God, one this way, and another that." 
1Corinthians7:8 But I say to the unmarried and to widows that it is good for them if they remain even as I. 
1Corinthians7:9 But if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion." 
1Corinthians7:10 But to the married I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband" 
1Corinthians7:11 (but if she does leave, she must remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband), and that the husband should not divorce his wife." 
1Corinthians7:12 But to the rest I say, not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, he must not divorce her." 
1Corinthians7:13 And a woman who has an unbelieving husband, and he consents to live with her, she must not divorce her husband." 
1Corinthians7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified through her believing husband. For otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy." 
1Corinthians7:15 Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or the sister is not enslaved in such cases, but God has called us to peace." 
1Corinthians7:16 For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?" 
1Corinthians7:17 Only, as the Lord has assigned to each one, as God has called each, in this manner let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches." 
1Corinthians7:18 Was any man called when he was already circumcised? He is not to become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He is not to be circumcised. 
1Corinthians7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but what matters is the keeping of the commandments of God." 
1Corinthians7:20 Each man must remain in that condition in which he was called. 
1Corinthians7:21 Were you called while a slave? Do not worry about it. But if you are able also to become free, rather do that." 
1Corinthians7:22 For he who was called in the Lord while a slave, is the Lord’s freedman. Likewise he who was called while free, is Christ’s slave." 
1Corinthians7:23 You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of men. 
1Corinthians7:24 Brothers, each one is to remain with God in that condition in which he was called." 
1Corinthians7:25 Now concerning virgins I have no command of the Lord, but I give an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy." 
1Corinthians7:26 I think then that this is good because of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is." 
1Corinthians7:27 Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. Are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. 
1Corinthians7:28 But if you marry, you have not sinned. And if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Yet such will have trouble in this life, and I am trying to spare you." 
1Corinthians7:29 But this I say, brothers, the time has been shortened, so that from now on those who have wives should be as though they had none;" 
1Corinthians7:30 and those who cry, as though they did not cry; and those who rejoice, as though they did not rejoice; and those who buy, as though they did not possess;" 
1Corinthians7:31 and those who use the world, as though they did not make full use of it. For the form of this world is passing away." 
1Corinthians7:32 But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:33 But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife," 
1Corinthians7:34 and his interests have been divided. The woman who is unmarried, and the virgin, is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband." 
1Corinthians7:35 Now this I say for your own benefit, not to put a restraint upon you, but to promote propriety and undistracted devotion to the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:36 But if any man thinks that he is acting unbecomingly toward his virgin daughter, if she is past her youth, and if it must be so, let him do what he wishes, he does not sin; let her marry." 
1Corinthians7:37 But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no compulsion, but has authority over his own will, and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his own virgin daughter, he will do well." 
1Corinthians7:38 So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better." 
1Corinthians7:39 A wife is bound as long as her husband lives; but if her husband has fallen asleep, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord." 
1Corinthians7:40 But in my opinion she is happier if she remains as she is. And I think that I also have the Spirit of God. 
1Corinthians8:1 Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up." 
1Corinthians8:2 If anyone thinks that he has known anything, he has not yet known as he ought to know;" 
1Corinthians8:3 but if anyone loves God, he has been known by Him." 
1Corinthians8:4 Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no God but one." 
1Corinthians8:5 For even if there are so-called gods whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords," 
1Corinthians8:6 yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and we exist for Him, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we exist through Him." 
1Corinthians8:7 However, not all men have this knowledge; but some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat food as if it were sacrificed to an idol; and their conscience, being weak, is defiled." 
1Corinthians8:8 But food will not commend us to God. We neither lack if we do not eat, nor abound if we do eat." 
1Corinthians8:9 But see to it that this authority of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. 
1Corinthians8:10 For if someone sees you, who have knowledge, dining in an idol’s temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be built up to eat things sacrificed to idols?" 
1Corinthians8:11 For through your knowledge he who is weak is ruined, the brother for whose sake Christ died." 
1Corinthians8:12 And in that way, by sinning against the brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ." 
1Corinthians8:13 Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat again—ever, so that I will not cause my brother to stumble." 
1Corinthians9:1 Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? 
1Corinthians9:2 If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord." 
1Corinthians9:3 My defense to those who examine me is this: 
1Corinthians9:4 Do we not have authority to eat and drink? 
1Corinthians9:5 Do we not have authority to take along a believing wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?" 
1Corinthians9:6 Or do only Barnabas and I not have authority to refrain from working? 
1Corinthians9:7 Who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not consume the fruit of it? Or who shepherds a flock and does not consume the milk of the flock? 
1Corinthians9:8 Am I speaking these things according to human judgment? Or does not the Law also say these things? 
1Corinthians9:9 For it is written in the Law of Moses, “You shall not muzzle the ox while it is threshing.” Is God merely concerned about oxen?" 
1Corinthians9:10 Or is He speaking altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written, because the plowman ought to plow in hope, and the thresher to thresh in hope of sharing the crops." 
1Corinthians9:11 If we sowed spiritual things in you, is it too much if we reap material things from you?" 
1Corinthians9:12 If others share this authority over you, do we not more? Nevertheless, we did not use this authority, but we endure all things so that we will cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ." 
1Corinthians9:13 Do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who attend regularly to the altar have their share from the altar?" 
1Corinthians9:14 So also the Lord directed those who proclaim the gospel to get their living from the gospel. 
1Corinthians9:15 But I have used none of these things. And I am not writing these things so that it will be done so in my case, for it would be better for me to die than have anyone make my boast an empty one." 
1Corinthians9:16 For if I proclaim the gospel, I have nothing to boast, for I am under compulsion. For woe is me if I do not proclaim the gospel." 
1Corinthians9:17 For if I do this voluntarily, I have a reward; but if against my will, I have a stewardship entrusted to me." 
1Corinthians9:18 What then is my reward? That, when I proclaim the gospel, I may offer the gospel without charge, so as not to make full use of my authority in the gospel." 
1Corinthians9:19 For though I am free from all, I have made myself a slave to all, so that I may win more." 
1Corinthians9:20 And to the Jews I became as a Jew, so that I might win Jews. To those who are under the Law, as under the Law though not being myself under the Law, so that I might win those who are under the Law." 
1Corinthians9:21 To those who are without law, as without law, though not being without the law of God but under the law of Christ, so that I might win those who are without law." 
1Corinthians9:22 To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men, so that I may by all means save some." 
1Corinthians9:23 So I do all things for the sake of the gospel, so that I may become a fellow partaker of it." 
1Corinthians9:24 Do you not know that those who run in a race all run, but only one receives the prize? Run in such a way that you may win." 
1Corinthians9:25 Now everyone who competes in the games exercises self-control in all things. They then do it to receive a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible." 
1Corinthians9:26 Therefore I run in such a way, as not without aim; I box in such a way, as not beating the air;" 
1Corinthians9:27 but I discipline my body and make it my slave, so that, after I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified." 
1Corinthians10:1 For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea;" 
1Corinthians10:2 and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea; 
1Corinthians10:3 and all ate the same spiritual food; 
1Corinthians10:4 and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock which followed them, and the rock was Christ." 
1Corinthians10:5 Nevertheless, with most of them God was not well-pleased. For they were struck down in the wilderness." 
1Corinthians10:6 Now these things happened as examples for us, so that we would not crave evil things as they also craved." 
1Corinthians10:7 Do not be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play.”" 
1Corinthians10:8 Nor let us act in sexual immorality, as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day." 
1Corinthians10:9 Nor let us put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by the serpents." 
1Corinthians10:10 Nor grumble, as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer." 
1Corinthians10:11 Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction, upon whom the ends of the ages have arrived." 
1Corinthians10:12 Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed that he does not fall. 
1Corinthians10:13 No temptation has overtaken you but such as is common to man, but God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, so that you will be able to endure it." 
1Corinthians10:14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry." 
1Corinthians10:15 I speak as to prudent people. You judge what I say. 
1Corinthians10:16 Is not the cup of blessing which we bless a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread which we break a sharing in the body of Christ? 
1Corinthians10:17 Since there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread." 
1Corinthians10:18 Look at the nation Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices sharers in the altar? 
1Corinthians10:19 What do I mean then? That a thing sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?" 
1Corinthians10:20 No, but I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God. And I do not want you to become sharers in demons." 
1Corinthians10:21 You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. 
1Corinthians10:22 Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? 
1Corinthians10:23 All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful, but not all things build up." 
1Corinthians10:24 Let no one seek his own good, but that of the other person." 
1Corinthians10:25 Eat anything that is sold in the meat market without asking questions for conscience’ sake. 
1Corinthians10:26 For the earth is the Lord’s, as well as its fullness." 
1Corinthians10:27 If one of the unbelievers invites you and you want to go, eat anything that is set before you without asking questions for conscience’ sake." 
1Corinthians10:28 But if anyone says to you, “This is meat consecrated to idols,” do not eat it, for the sake of the one who informed you, and for conscience’ sake." 
1Corinthians10:29 I do not mean your own conscience, but the other person’s. For why is my freedom judged by another’s conscience?" 
1Corinthians10:30 If I partake with gratefulness, why am I slandered concerning that for which I give thanks?" 
1Corinthians10:31 Whether, then, you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God." 
1Corinthians10:32 Give no offense either to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God; 
1Corinthians10:33 just as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit but the profit of the many, so that they may be saved." 
1Corinthians11:1 Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ." 
1Corinthians11:2 Now I praise you because you remember me in everything and hold firmly to the traditions, just as I delivered them to you." 
1Corinthians11:3 But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ." 
1Corinthians11:4 Every man who has something on his head while praying or prophesying, shames his head." 
1Corinthians11:5 But every woman who has her head uncovered while praying or prophesying, shames her head, for she is one and the same as the woman whose head is shaved." 
1Corinthians11:6 For if a woman does not cover her head, let her also have her hair cut short. But if it is disgraceful for a woman to have her hair cut short or her head shaved, let her cover her head." 
1Corinthians11:7 For a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man." 
1Corinthians11:8 For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man." 
1Corinthians11:9 For indeed man was not created for the woman’s sake, but woman for the man’s sake." 
1Corinthians11:10 Therefore the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels." 
1Corinthians11:11 Nevertheless, in the Lord, neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman." 
1Corinthians11:12 For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman, but all things originate from God." 
1Corinthians11:13 Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? 
1Corinthians11:14 Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him," 
1Corinthians11:15 but if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her? For her hair is given to her for a covering." 
1Corinthians11:16 But if one is inclined to be contentious, we have no other practice, nor have the churches of God." 
1Corinthians11:17 But in giving this instruction, I do not praise you, because you come together not for the better but for the worse." 
1Corinthians11:18 For, in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that divisions exist among you, and in part I believe it." 
1Corinthians11:19 For there must also be factions among you, so that those who are approved may become evident among you." 
1Corinthians11:20 Therefore when you meet together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord’s Supper," 
1Corinthians11:21 for in your eating each one takes his own supper first, and one is hungry and another is drunk." 
1Corinthians11:22 For do you not have houses in which to eat and drink? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise you. 
1Corinthians11:23 For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was being betrayed took bread," 
1Corinthians11:24 and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, “This is My body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of Me.”" 
1Corinthians11:25 In the same way He took the cup also after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood; do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.”" 
1Corinthians11:26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord until He comes." 
1Corinthians11:27 Therefore whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord." 
1Corinthians11:28 But a man must test himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup." 
1Corinthians11:29 For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not judge the body rightly." 
1Corinthians11:30 For this reason many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep." 
1Corinthians11:31 But if we judged ourselves rightly, we would not be judged." 
1Corinthians11:32 But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord so that we will not be condemned along with the world." 
1Corinthians11:33 So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another." 
1Corinthians11:34 If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that you will not come together for judgment. The remaining matters I will direct when I come." 
1Corinthians12:1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant." 
1Corinthians12:2 You know that when you were pagans, you were being led astray to the mute idols, however you were led." 
1Corinthians12:3 Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, “Jesus is accursed,” and no one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:4 Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:5 And there are varieties of ministries, and the same Lord." 
1Corinthians12:6 And there are varieties of workings, but the same God who works everything in everyone." 
1Corinthians12:7 But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is profitable. 
1Corinthians12:8 For to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit;" 
1Corinthians12:9 to someone else faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit," 
1Corinthians12:10 and to another the workings of miracles, and to another prophecy, and to another the distinguishing of spirits, to someone else various kinds of tongues, and to another the translation of tongues." 
1Corinthians12:11 But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually just as He wills." 
1Corinthians12:12 For even as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ." 
1Corinthians12:13 For also by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one Spirit." 
1Corinthians12:14 For also the body is not one member, but many." 
1Corinthians12:15 If the foot says, “Because I am not a hand, I am not a part of the body,” it is not for this reason any the less a part of the body." 
1Corinthians12:16 And if the ear says, “Because I am not an eye, I am not a part of the body,” it is not for this reason any the less a part of the body." 
1Corinthians12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the sense of smell be?" 
1Corinthians12:18 But now God has appointed the members, each one of them, in the body, just as He desired." 
1Corinthians12:19 And if they were all one member, where would the body be?" 
1Corinthians12:20 But now there are many members, but one body." 
1Corinthians12:21 And the eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need of you”; or again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.”" 
1Corinthians12:22 On the contrary, how much more is it that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary," 
1Corinthians12:23 and those members of the body which we think as less honorable, on these we bestow more abundant honor, and our less presentable members become much more presentable," 
1Corinthians12:24 whereas our more presentable members have no such need. But God has so composed the body, giving more abundant honor to that member which lacked," 
1Corinthians12:25 so that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another." 
1Corinthians12:26 And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it." 
1Corinthians12:27 Now you are Christ’s body, and individually members of it." 
1Corinthians12:28 And God has appointed in the church, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, various kinds of tongues." 
1Corinthians12:29 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? 
1Corinthians12:30 Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all translate? 
1Corinthians12:31 But you earnestly desire the greater gifts. And I will yet show you a more excellent way. 
1Corinthians13:1 If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal." 
1Corinthians13:2 And if I have the gift of prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge; and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing." 
1Corinthians13:3 And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor, and if I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing." 
1Corinthians13:4 Love is patient, love is kind, is not jealous, does not brag, is not puffed up;" 
1Corinthians13:5 it does not act unbecomingly, does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered;" 
1Corinthians13:6 it does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth;" 
1Corinthians13:7 it bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things." 
1Corinthians13:8 Love never fails, but if there are gifts of prophecy, they will be done away; if there are tongues, they will cease; if there is knowledge, it will be done away." 
1Corinthians13:9 For we know in part and we prophesy in part," 
1Corinthians13:10 but when the perfect comes, the partial will be done away." 
1Corinthians13:11 When I was a child, I used to speak like a child, think like a child, reason like a child. When I became a man, I did away with childish things." 
1Corinthians13:12 For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully just as I also have been fully known." 
1Corinthians13:13 But now abide faith, hope, love—these three; but the greatest of these is love." 
1Corinthians14:1 Pursue love, yet earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy." 
1Corinthians14:2 For one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God, for no one understands, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries." 
1Corinthians14:3 But one who prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and encouragement. 
1Corinthians14:4 One who speaks in a tongue edifies himself; but one who prophesies edifies the church. 
1Corinthians14:5 But I wish that you all spoke in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. And greater is one who prophesies than one who speaks in tongues, unless he translates, so that the church may receive edification." 
1Corinthians14:6 But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you unless I speak to you either by way of revelation or of knowledge or of prophecy or of teaching?" 
1Corinthians14:7 Yet even lifeless things, either flute or harp, in producing a sound, if they do not produce a distinction in the tones, how will it be known what is played on the flute or on the harp?" 
1Corinthians14:8 For if the trumpet produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle?" 
1Corinthians14:9 So also you, unless you utter by the tongue a word that is clear, how will it be known what is spoken? For you will be speaking into the air." 
1Corinthians14:10 There are, perhaps, a great many kinds of sounds in the world, and none is without meaning." 
1Corinthians14:11 If then I do not know the meaning of the sound, I will be to the one who speaks a barbarian, and the one who speaks will be a barbarian to me." 
1Corinthians14:12 So also you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, seek to abound for the edification of the church." 
1Corinthians14:13 Therefore let one who speaks in a tongue pray that he may translate. 
1Corinthians14:14 For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful." 
1Corinthians14:15 What is the outcome then? I will pray with the spirit and I will pray with the mind also; I will sing with the spirit and I will sing with the mind also. 
1Corinthians14:16 Otherwise if you bless in the spirit only, how will the one who fills the place of the uninformed say the “Amen” at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying?" 
1Corinthians14:17 For you are giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not edified." 
1Corinthians14:18 I thank God that I speak in tongues more than you all; 
1Corinthians14:19 however, in the church I desire to speak five words with my mind so that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in a tongue." 
1Corinthians14:20 Brothers, do not be children in your thinking; rather in evil be infants, but in your thinking be mature." 
1Corinthians14:21 In the Law it is written, “By men of strange tongues and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people, and even so they will not listen to Me,” says the Lord." 
1Corinthians14:22 So then tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to unbelievers; but prophecy is for a sign not to unbelievers but to those who believe." 
1Corinthians14:23 Therefore if the whole church assembles together and all speak in tongues, and uninformed men or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your mind?" 
1Corinthians14:24 But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or an uninformed man enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all;" 
1Corinthians14:25 the secrets of his heart are disclosed; and so he will fall on his face and worship God, declaring that surely God is among you." 
1Corinthians14:26 What is the outcome then, brothers? When you assemble, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has a translation. Let all things be done for edification." 
1Corinthians14:27 If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two or at the most three, and each in turn, and one must translate;" 
1Corinthians14:28 but if there is no translator, he must keep silent in the church, and let him speak to himself and to God." 
1Corinthians14:29 And let two or three prophets speak, and let the others pass judgment." 
1Corinthians14:30 But if a revelation is made to another who is seated, the first one must keep silent." 
1Corinthians14:31 For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be exhorted." 
1Corinthians14:32 And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets; 
1Corinthians14:33 for God is not a God of confusion but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints." 
1Corinthians14:34 The women are to keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak, but are to subject themselves, just as the Law also says." 
1Corinthians14:35 But if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church." 
1Corinthians14:36 Was it from you that the word of God first went forth? Or has it arrived to you only? 
1Corinthians14:37 If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord’s commandment." 
1Corinthians14:38 But if anyone remains ignorant about this, he is ignored by God." 
1Corinthians14:39 Therefore, my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in tongues." 
1Corinthians14:40 But all things must be done properly and in an orderly manner. 
1Corinthians15:1 Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel which I proclaimed as good news to you, which also you received, in which also you stand," 
1Corinthians15:2 by which also you are saved, if you hold fast the word which I proclaimed to you as good news, unless you believed for nothing." 
1Corinthians15:3 For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures," 
1Corinthians15:4 and that He was buried, and that He was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures," 
1Corinthians15:5 and that He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve." 
1Corinthians15:6 After that He appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom remain until now, but some have fallen asleep." 
1Corinthians15:7 After that, He appeared to James, then to all the apostles," 
1Corinthians15:7 After that, He appeared to James, then to all the apostles," 
1Corinthians15:8 and last of all, as to one untimely born, He appeared to me also." 
1Corinthians15:9 For I am the least of the apostles, and not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God." 
1Corinthians15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me did not prove vain; but I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me." 
1Corinthians15:11 Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed." 
1Corinthians15:12 Now if Christ is preached, that He has been raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?" 
1Corinthians15:13 But if there is no resurrection of the dead, not even Christ has been raised." 
1Corinthians15:14 And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is vain, your faith also is vain." 
1Corinthians15:15 Moreover we are even found to be false witnesses of God, because we bore witness against God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if in fact the dead are not raised." 
1Corinthians15:16 For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised." 
1Corinthians15:17 And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless; you are still in your sins." 
1Corinthians15:18 Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. 
1Corinthians15:19 If we have hoped in Christ in this life only, we are of all men most to be pitied." 
1Corinthians15:20 But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep." 
1Corinthians15:21 For since by a man came death, by a man also came the resurrection of the dead." 
1Corinthians15:22 For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive." 
1Corinthians15:23 But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, after that those who are Christ’s at His coming." 
1Corinthians15:24 Then comes the end, when He hands over the kingdom to the God and Father, when He has abolished all rule and all authority and power." 
1Corinthians15:25 For He must reign until He has put all His enemies under His feet. 
1Corinthians15:26 The last enemy to be abolished is death. 
1Corinthians15:27 For He has put all things in subjection under His feet. But when He says, “All things are put in subjection,” it is evident that He is excepted who put all things in subjection to Him." 
1Corinthians15:28 And when all things are subjected to Him, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to the One who subjected all things to Him, so that God may be all in all." 
1Corinthians15:29 Otherwise, what will those do who are baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why then are they baptized for them?" 
1Corinthians15:30 Why are we also in danger every hour? 
1Corinthians15:31 I affirm, brothers, by the boasting in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily." 
1Corinthians15:32 If from human motives I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what does it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die." 
1Corinthians15:33 Do not be deceived: “Bad company corrupts good morals.” 
1Corinthians15:34 Become righteously sober-minded, and stop sinning; for some have no knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame." 
1Corinthians15:35 But someone will say, “How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?”" 
1Corinthians15:36 You fool! That which you sow does not come to life unless it dies; 
1Corinthians15:37 and that which you sow, you do not sow the body which is to be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of something else." 
1Corinthians15:38 But God gives it a body just as He wished, and to each of the seeds a body of its own." 
1Corinthians15:39 All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one flesh of men, and another flesh of beasts, and another flesh of birds, and another of fish." 
1Corinthians15:40 There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is one, and the glory of the earthly is another." 
1Corinthians15:41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory." 
1Corinthians15:42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown a corruptible body, it is raised an incorruptible body;" 
1Corinthians15:43 it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;" 
1Corinthians15:44 it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body." 
1Corinthians15:45 So also it is written, “The first man, Adam, became a living soul.” The last Adam became a life-giving spirit." 
1Corinthians15:46 However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual." 
1Corinthians15:47 The first man is from the earth, earthy; the second man is from heaven." 
1Corinthians15:48 As is the earthy, so also are those who are earthy; and as is the heavenly, so also are those who are heavenly." 
1Corinthians15:49 And just as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly." 
1Corinthians15:50 Now I say this, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the corruptible inherit the incorruptible." 
1Corinthians15:51 Behold, I tell you a mystery: we will not all sleep, but we will all be changed," 
1Corinthians15:52 in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed." 
1Corinthians15:53 For this corruptible must put on the incorruptible, and this mortal must put on immortality." 
1Corinthians15:54 But when this corruptible puts on the incorruptible, and this mortal puts on immortality, then will come about the word that is written, “Death is swallowed up in victory." 
1Corinthians15:55 O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?”" 
1Corinthians15:56 Now the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law;" 
1Corinthians15:57 but thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!" 
1Corinthians15:58 Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord." 
1Corinthians16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatia, so do you also." 
1Corinthians16:2 On the first day of every week each one of you is to set something aside, saving whatever he has prospered, so that no collections be made when I come." 
1Corinthians16:3 And when I arrive, whomever you may approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem," 
1Corinthians16:4 and if it is fitting for me to go also, they will go with me." 
1Corinthians16:5 But I will come to you after I go through Macedonia, for I am going through Macedonia;" 
1Corinthians16:6 and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way wherever I may go." 
1Corinthians16:7 For I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I hope to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits." 
1Corinthians16:8 But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost," 
1Corinthians16:9 for a wide and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries." 
1Corinthians16:10 Now if Timothy comes, take care that he is with you without fear, for he is doing the Lord’s work, as I also am." 
1Corinthians16:11 So let no one despise him. But send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me, for I expect him with the brothers." 
1Corinthians16:12 Now concerning Apollos our brother, I encouraged him greatly to come to you with the brothers, and it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity." 
1Corinthians16:13 Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong." 
1Corinthians16:14 Let all that you do be done in love. 
1Corinthians16:15 Now I exhort you, brothers (you know the household of Stephanas, that they were the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves for service to the saints)," 
1Corinthians16:16 that you also be in subjection to such men and to everyone who helps in the work and labors. 
1Corinthians16:17 And I rejoice over the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have supplied what was lacking on your part." 
1Corinthians16:18 For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore recognize such men. 
1Corinthians16:19 The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you heartily in the Lord, with the church that is in their house." 
1Corinthians16:20 All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
1Corinthians16:21 The greeting is in my own hand—Paul. 
1Corinthians16:22 If anyone does not love the Lord, he is to be accursed. Maranatha." 
1Corinthians16:23 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. 
1Corinthians16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
2Corinthians1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the church of God which is at Corinth with all the saints who are throughout Achaia:" 
2Corinthians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
2Corinthians1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort," 
2Corinthians1:4 who comforts us in all our affliction so that we will be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. 
2Corinthians1:5 For just as the sufferings of Christ abound to us, so also our comfort abounds through Christ." 
2Corinthians1:6 But whether we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; or whether we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which is working in your perseverance in the same sufferings which we also suffer." 
2Corinthians1:7 And our hope for you is firmly grounded, knowing that as you are sharers of our sufferings, so also you are sharers of our comfort." 
2Corinthians1:8 For we do not want you to be unaware, brothers, of our affliction which came to us in Asia, that we were burdened excessively, beyond our strength, so that we despaired even to live." 
2Corinthians1:9 Indeed, we had the sentence of death within ourselves so that we would not have confidence in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead;" 
2Corinthians1:10 who rescued us from so great a peril of death, and will rescue us, He on whom we have set our hope. And He will yet rescue us," 
2Corinthians1:11 you also joining in helping us through your prayers on our behalf, so that thanks may be given on our behalf by many persons for the gracious gift bestowed on us through the prayers of many." 
2Corinthians1:12 For our boasting is this: the testimony of our conscience, that in holiness and godly sincerity, not in fleshly wisdom but in the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world, and especially toward you." 
2Corinthians1:13 For we write nothing else to you than what you read and understand, and I hope you will understand until the end," 
2Corinthians1:14 just as you also partially did understand us, that we are your reason for boasting as you also are ours, in the day of our Lord Jesus." 
2Corinthians1:15 And in this confidence I intended at first to come to you, so that you might receive grace twice;" 
2Corinthians1:16 that is, to pass your way into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you, and by you to be helped on my journey to Judea." 
2Corinthians1:16 that is, to pass your way into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you, and by you to be helped on my journey to Judea." 
2Corinthians1:17 Therefore, was I vacillating when I intended to do this? Or what I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, so that with me there will be yes, yes and no, no at the same time?" 
2Corinthians1:18 But as God is faithful, our word to you is not yes and no." 
2Corinthians1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us—by me and Silvanus and Timothy—was not yes and no, but has become yes in Him." 
2Corinthians1:20 For as many as are the promises of God, in Him they are yes. Therefore also through Him is our Amen to the glory of God through us." 
2Corinthians1:21 Now He who establishes us with you in Christ and anointed us is God," 
2Corinthians1:22 who also sealed us and gave the pledge of the Spirit in our hearts. 
2Corinthians1:23 But I call God as witness to my soul, that to spare you I did not come again to Corinth." 
2Corinthians1:24 Not that we lord it over your faith, but are workers with you for your joy; for in your faith you are standing firm." 
2Corinthians2:1 But I determined this for my own sake, that I would not come to you again in sorrow." 
2Corinthians2:2 For if I cause you sorrow, who then makes me glad but the one whom I made sorrowful?" 
2Corinthians2:3 And this is the very thing I wrote you, so that when I came, I would not have sorrow from those who ought to make me rejoice; having confidence in you all that my joy would be the joy of you all." 
2Corinthians2:4 For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears; not so that you would be made sorrowful, but that you might know the love which I have abundantly for you." 
2Corinthians2:5 But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow not to me, but in some degree—in order not to say too much—to all of you." 
2Corinthians2:6 Sufficient for such a one is this punishment which was inflicted by the majority," 
2Corinthians2:7 so that on the contrary you should rather graciously forgive and comfort him, lest such a one be swallowed up by excessive sorrow." 
2Corinthians2:8 Therefore I encourage you to reaffirm your love for him. 
2Corinthians2:9 For to this end also I wrote, so that I might know your proven character, whether you are obedient in all things." 
2Corinthians2:10 But one whom you graciously forgive anything, I graciously forgive also. For indeed what I have graciously forgiven, if I have graciously forgiven anything, I did it for your sakes in the presence of Christ," 
2Corinthians2:11 so that no advantage would be taken of us by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes." 
2Corinthians2:12 Now when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ and when a door was opened for me in the Lord," 
2Corinthians2:13 I had no rest for my spirit, not finding Titus my brother. But saying farewell to them, I went on to Macedonia." 
2Corinthians2:13 I had no rest for my spirit, not finding Titus my brother. But saying farewell to them, I went on to Macedonia." 
2Corinthians2:14 But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ, and manifests through us the aroma of the knowledge of Him in every place." 
2Corinthians2:15 For we are a fragrance of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing; 
2Corinthians2:16 to the one an aroma from death to death, to the other an aroma from life to life. And who is sufficient for these things?" 
2Corinthians2:17 For we are not like many, peddling the word of God, but as from sincerity, but as from God, in the sight of God, we speak in Christ." 
2Corinthians3:1 Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need, as some, letters of commendation to you or from you?" 
2Corinthians3:2 You are our letter, having been written in our hearts, known and read by all men," 
2Corinthians3:3 being manifested that you are a letter of Christ, ministered to by us, having been written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of hearts of flesh." 
2Corinthians3:4 And such confidence we have through Christ toward God. 
2Corinthians3:5 Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our sufficiency is from God," 
2Corinthians3:6 who also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit; for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life." 
2Corinthians3:7 But if the ministry of death, in letters having been engraved on stones, came with glory, so that the sons of Israel could not look intently at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, which was being brought to an end," 
2Corinthians3:8 how will the ministry of the Spirit not be even more in glory? 
2Corinthians3:9 For if the ministry of condemnation has glory, much more does the ministry of righteousness abound in glory." 
2Corinthians3:10 For indeed what had been glorious, in this case has no glory because of the glory that surpasses it." 
2Corinthians3:11 For if that which was being brought to an end was with glory, much more that which remains is in glory." 
2Corinthians3:12 Therefore having such a hope, we use great boldness," 
2Corinthians3:13 and are not like Moses, who used to put a veil over his face so that the sons of Israel would not look intently at the consequence of what was being brought to an end." 
2Corinthians3:14 But their minds were hardened; for until this very day at the reading of the old covenant the same veil remains unlifted, because it is brought to an end in Christ." 
2Corinthians3:15 But to this day whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their heart," 
2Corinthians3:16 but whenever a person turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away." 
2Corinthians3:17 Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom." 
2Corinthians3:18 But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord, the Spirit." 
2Corinthians4:1 Therefore, since we have this ministry, as we received mercy, we do not lose heart," 
2Corinthians4:2 but we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness or adulterating the word of God, but by the manifestation of truth commending ourselves to every man’s conscience in the sight of God." 
2Corinthians4:3 And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing," 
2Corinthians4:4 in whose case the god of this age has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God." 
2Corinthians4:5 For we do not preach ourselves but Jesus Christ as Lord, and ourselves as your slaves for the sake of Jesus." 
2Corinthians4:6 For God, who said, “Light shall shine out of darkness,” is the One who has shone in our hearts to give the Light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ." 
2Corinthians4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the surpassing greatness of the power will be of God and not from ourselves;" 
2Corinthians4:8 in every way afflicted, but not crushed; perplexed, but not despairing;" 
2Corinthians4:9 persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;" 
2Corinthians4:10 always carrying about in the body the dying of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body." 
2Corinthians4:11 For we who live are constantly being delivered over to death for Jesus’ sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh." 
2Corinthians4:12 So death works in us, but life in you." 
2Corinthians4:13 But having the same spirit of faith, according to what is written, “I believed, therefore I spoke,” we also believe, therefore we also speak," 
2Corinthians4:14 knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and will present us with you. 
2Corinthians4:15 For all things are for your sakes, so that the grace which is spreading to more and more people may cause the giving of thanks to abound to the glory of God." 
2Corinthians4:16 Therefore we do not lose heart, but though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day." 
2Corinthians4:17 For our momentary, light affliction is working out for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison," 
2Corinthians4:18 while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen; for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal." 
2Corinthians5:1 For we know that if the earthly tent which is our house is torn down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens." 
2Corinthians5:2 For indeed in this we groan, longing to be clothed with our dwelling from heaven," 
2Corinthians5:3 inasmuch as we, having put it on, will not be found naked." 
2Corinthians5:4 For indeed while we are in this tent, we groan, being burdened, because we do not want to be unclothed but to be clothed, so that what is mortal will be swallowed up by life." 
2Corinthians5:5 Now He who prepared us for this very purpose is God, who gave to us the Spirit as a pledge." 
2Corinthians5:6 Therefore, being always of good courage, and knowing that while we are at home in the body we are absent from the Lord—" 
2Corinthians5:7 for we walk by faith, not by sight—" 
2Corinthians5:8 we are of good courage and prefer rather to be absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord. 
2Corinthians5:9 Therefore we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to Him." 
2Corinthians5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad." 
2Corinthians5:11 So then, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we have been made manifest to God; and I hope that we have been made manifest also in your consciences." 
2Corinthians5:12 We are not again commending ourselves to you but are giving you an opportunity to boast of us, so that you will have an answer for those who boast in appearance and not in heart." 
2Corinthians5:13 For if we are out of our mind, it is for God, or if we are of right mind, it is for you." 
2Corinthians5:14 For the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all died." 
2Corinthians5:15 And He died for all, so that they who live would no longer live for themselves, but for Him who died and rose again on their behalf." 
2Corinthians5:16 Therefore from now on we recognize no one according to the flesh; even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know Him in this way no longer." 
2Corinthians5:17 Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old things passed away; behold, new things have come." 
2Corinthians5:18 Now all these things are from God, who reconciled us to Himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation," 
2Corinthians5:19 namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their transgressions against them, and He has committed to us the word of reconciliation." 
2Corinthians5:20 So then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as God is pleading through us. We beg you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God." 
2Corinthians5:21 He made Him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in Him." 
2Corinthians6:1 And working together with Him, we also plead with you not to receive the grace of God in vain—" 
2Corinthians6:2 for He says, “At the acceptable time I listened to you, And on the day of salvation I helped you.” Behold, now is “the acceptable time,” behold, now is “the day of salvation”—" 
2Corinthians6:3 giving no cause for offense in anything, so that the ministry will not be discredited," 
2Corinthians6:4 but in everything commending ourselves as ministers of God, in much perseverance, in afflictions, in distresses, in hardships," 
2Corinthians6:5 in beatings, in imprisonments, in disturbances, in labors, in sleeplessness, in hunger," 
2Corinthians6:6 in purity, in knowledge, in patience, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in unhypocritical love," 
2Corinthians6:7 in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and the left," 
2Corinthians6:8 by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report; regarded as deceivers and yet true;" 
2Corinthians6:9 as unknown and yet well-known, as dying and yet behold, we live; as punished and yet not put to death," 
2Corinthians6:10 as sorrowful but always rejoicing, as poor but making many rich, as having nothing and yet possessing all things." 
2Corinthians6:11 Our mouth has spoken freely to you, O Corinthians, our heart is opened wide." 
2Corinthians6:12 You are not restrained by us, but you are restrained in your own affections." 
2Corinthians6:13 Now in a like exchange—I speak as to children—open wide to us also. 
2Corinthians6:14 Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers; for what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness, or what fellowship has light with darkness?" 
2Corinthians6:15 Or what harmony has Christ with Belial, or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever?" 
2Corinthians6:16 Or what agreement has a sanctuary of God with idols? For we are a sanctuary of the living God; just as God said, “I will dwell in them and walk among them; And I will be their God, and they shall be My people." 
2Corinthians6:17 Therefore, come out from their midst and be separate,” says the Lord. “And do not touch what is unclean, And I will welcome you." 
2Corinthians6:18 And I will be a father to you, And you shall be sons and daughters to Me,” says the Lord Almighty." 
2Corinthians7:1 Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." 
2Corinthians7:2 Make room for us in your hearts. We wronged no one, we corrupted no one, we took advantage of no one." 
2Corinthians7:3 I do not speak to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together." 
2Corinthians7:4 Great is my boldness toward you; great is my boasting on your behalf. I have been filled with comfort; I am overflowing with joy in all our affliction. 
2Corinthians7:5 For even when we came into Macedonia our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted on every side—conflicts without, fears within." 
2Corinthians7:6 But God, who comforts the humbled, comforted us by the coming of Titus;" 
2Corinthians7:6 But God, who comforts the humbled, comforted us by the coming of Titus;" 
2Corinthians7:7 and not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted in you, as he reported to us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced even more." 
2Corinthians7:8 For though I caused you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it—for I see that that letter caused you sorrow, though only for a while—" 
2Corinthians7:9 I now rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to repentance. For you were made to have godly sorrow, so that you might not suffer loss in anything through us." 
2Corinthians7:10 For godly sorrow produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation, but the sorrow of the world brings about death." 
2Corinthians7:11 For behold what earnestness this very thing—this godly sorrow—has brought about in you: what vindication of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what avenging of wrong! In everything you demonstrated yourselves to be innocent in the matter." 
2Corinthians7:12 So although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of the offender nor for the sake of the one offended, but that your earnestness on our behalf might be manifested to you in the sight of God." 
2Corinthians7:13 For this reason we have been comforted. And besides our comfort, we rejoiced even much more for the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all." 
2Corinthians7:13 For this reason we have been comforted. And besides our comfort, we rejoiced even much more for the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all." 
2Corinthians7:14 For if in anything I have boasted to him about you, I was not put to shame, but as we spoke all things to you in truth, so also our boasting before Titus proved to be the truth." 
2Corinthians7:14 For if in anything I have boasted to him about you, I was not put to shame, but as we spoke all things to you in truth, so also our boasting before Titus proved to be the truth." 
2Corinthians7:15 And his affection abounds all the more toward you, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling." 
2Corinthians7:16 I rejoice that in everything I am encouraged about you. 
2Corinthians8:1 Now brothers, we make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia," 
2Corinthians8:2 that in a great testing by affliction their abundance of joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the richness of their generosity. 
2Corinthians8:3 For I testify that according to their ability, and beyond their ability, they gave of their own accord," 
2Corinthians8:4 begging us with much urging for the grace of sharing in the ministry to the saints," 
2Corinthians8:5 and this, not as we had expected, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God." 
2Corinthians8:6 So we encouraged Titus that as he had previously made a beginning, so he would also complete in you this gracious work as well." 
2Corinthians8:6 So we encouraged Titus that as he had previously made a beginning, so he would also complete in you this gracious work as well." 
2Corinthians8:7 But just as you abound in everything, in faith and word and knowledge and in all earnestness and in the love we inspired in you, see that you abound in this gracious work also." 
2Corinthians8:8 I am not speaking this as a command, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity of your love also." 
2Corinthians8:9 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though being rich, yet for your sake He became poor, so that you through His poverty might become rich." 
2Corinthians8:10 And I give my opinion in this matter, for this is profitable for you, who were the first to begin a year ago not only to do this, but also to desire to do it." 
2Corinthians8:11 But now complete doing it also, so that just as there was the readiness to desire it, so there may be also the completion of it from what you have." 
2Corinthians8:12 For if the readiness is present, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have." 
2Corinthians8:13 For this is not for the relief of others and for your affliction, but by way of equality—" 
2Corinthians8:14 at this present time your abundance being a supply for their need, so that their abundance also may become a supply for your need, that there may be equality." 
2Corinthians8:15 As it is written, “He who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack.”" 
2Corinthians8:16 But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus. 
2Corinthians8:16 But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus. 
2Corinthians8:17 For he not only accepted our plea, but being himself very earnest, he has gone out to you of his own accord." 
2Corinthians8:18 And we have sent along with him the brother whose praise in the things of the gospel is throughout all the churches. 
2Corinthians8:19 And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this gracious work that is being ministered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself, and to show our readiness," 
2Corinthians8:20 taking precaution lest anyone discredits us in our ministering of this generous gift," 
2Corinthians8:21 for we respect what is good, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men." 
2Corinthians8:22 And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have often tested and found earnest in many things, but now even more earnest because of his great confidence in you." 
2Corinthians8:23 As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you; as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, a glory to Christ." 
2Corinthians8:23 As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you; as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, a glory to Christ." 
2Corinthians8:24 Therefore openly before the churches, show them the proof of your love and of our reason for boasting about you." 
2Corinthians9:1 For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints; 
2Corinthians9:2 for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the Macedonians, that Achaia has been prepared since last year, and your zeal stirred up most of them." 
2Corinthians9:3 But I have sent the brothers, in order that our boasting about you may not be made empty in this case, so that, as I was saying, you may be prepared;" 
2Corinthians9:4 lest if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we—not to speak of you—be put to shame in this certainty of ours." 
2Corinthians9:5 So I regarded it necessary to encourage the brothers that they would go on ahead to you and arrange beforehand your previously promised blessing, so that the same would be ready as a blessing and not as a begrudging obligation." 
2Corinthians9:6 Now this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows with blessing will also reap with blessing." 
2Corinthians9:7 Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver." 
2Corinthians9:8 And God is able to make every grace abound to you, so that in everything at every time having every sufficiency, you may have an abundance for every good deed;" 
2Corinthians9:9 as it is written, “He scattered abroad, he gave to the needy, His righteousness stands forever.”" 
2Corinthians9:10 Now He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed and increase the harvest of your righteousness; 
2Corinthians9:11 you will be enriched in everything for all generosity, which through us is bringing about thanksgiving to God." 
2Corinthians9:12 For the ministry of this service is not only fully supplying the needs of the saints, but is also abounding through many thanksgivings to God." 
2Corinthians9:13 Because of the proven character given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ and for the generosity of your fellowship toward them and toward all," 
2Corinthians9:14 while they also, by prayer on your behalf, long for you because of the surpassing grace of God on you." 
2Corinthians9:15 Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift! 
2Corinthians10:1 Now I, Paul, myself plead with you by the gentleness and forbearance of Christ—I who am humble when face-to-face with you, but courageous toward you when absent!" 
2Corinthians10:2 But I beg that when I am present I need not act so courageously with the confidence that I consider to daringly use against some, who consider us as if we walked according to the flesh." 
2Corinthians10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh," 
2Corinthians10:4 for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the tearing down of strongholds," 
2Corinthians10:5 as we tear down speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to the obedience of Christ," 
2Corinthians10:6 and are ready to punish all disobedience, whenever your obedience is fulfilled." 
2Corinthians10:7 You are looking at things as they are outwardly. If anyone is confident in himself that he is Christ’s, let him consider this again within himself, that just as he is Christ’s, so also are we." 
2Corinthians10:8 For even if I boast somewhat further about our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for tearing you down, I will not be put to shame," 
2Corinthians10:9 for I do not wish to seem as if I would terrify you by my letters. 
2Corinthians10:10 For they say, “His letters are weighty and strong, but his personal presence is weak and his words contemptible.”" 
2Corinthians10:11 Let such a person consider this, that what we are in word by letters when absent, such persons we are also in deed when present." 
2Corinthians10:12 For we do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who commend themselves, but when they measure themselves by themselves and compare themselves with themselves, they are without understanding." 
2Corinthians10:13 But we will not boast beyond our measure, but within the measure of the area of influence which God apportioned to us as a measure, to reach even as far as you." 
2Corinthians10:14 For we are not overextending ourselves, as if we did not reach you, (for we were the first to come even as far as you in the gospel of Christ)," 
2Corinthians10:15 not boasting beyond our measure in other men’s labors, but having the hope—that as your faith grows—to be enlarged even more by you within our area of influence," 
2Corinthians10:16 so as to proclaim the gospel even to the regions beyond you, and not to boast in what has been accomplished in the area of influence of another." 
2Corinthians10:17 But he who boasts is to boast in the Lord. 
2Corinthians10:18 For it is not the one who commends himself that is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends." 
2Corinthians11:1 I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness, but indeed you are bearing with me." 
2Corinthians11:2 For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, for I betrothed you to one husband, so that I might present you as a pure virgin to Christ." 
2Corinthians11:3 But I fear that, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your minds will be corrupted from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ." 
2Corinthians11:4 For if one comes and preaches another Jesus whom we did not preach, or you receive a different spirit which you did not receive, or a different gospel which you did not accept, you bear this beautifully." 
2Corinthians11:5 For I consider myself in no way inferior to the most-eminent apostles. 
2Corinthians11:6 But even if I am unskilled in word, yet I am not so in knowledge; in fact, in every way we have made this evident to you in all things." 
2Corinthians11:7 Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I proclaimed the gospel of God to you without charge?" 
2Corinthians11:8 I robbed other churches by taking wages from them to minister to you. 
2Corinthians11:9 And when I was present with you and was in need, I was not a burden to anyone; for when the brothers came from Macedonia they fully supplied my need, and in everything I kept and will keep myself from being a burden to you." 
2Corinthians11:10 As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be stopped in the regions of Achaia." 
2Corinthians11:11 Why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do! 
2Corinthians11:12 But what I am doing I will continue to do, so that I may cut off opportunity from those who desire an opportunity to be found just as we are in the matter about which they are boasting." 
2Corinthians11:13 For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ." 
2Corinthians11:14 And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light." 
2Corinthians11:15 Therefore it is not surprising if his ministers also disguise themselves as ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their deeds." 
2Corinthians11:16 Again I say, let no one think me foolish; but if you do, receive me even as foolish, so that I also may boast a little." 
2Corinthians11:17 What I am saying, I am not saying according to the Lord, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting." 
2Corinthians11:18 Since many boast according to the flesh, I will boast also." 
2Corinthians11:19 For you, being so wise, are bearing the foolish gladly." 
2Corinthians11:20 For you bear it if anyone enslaves you, anyone devours you, anyone takes advantage of you, anyone exalts himself, anyone hits you in the face." 
2Corinthians11:21 To my shame I must say that we have been weak by comparison. But in whatever respect anyone else is daring—I speak in foolishness—I am just as daring myself. 
2Corinthians11:22 Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they Abraham’s seed? So am I. 
2Corinthians11:22 Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they Abraham’s seed? So am I. 
2Corinthians11:23 Are they ministers of Christ?—I speak as if insane—I more so; in far more labors, in far more imprisonments, in beatings without number, in frequent danger of death." 
2Corinthians11:24 Five times I received from the Jews forty lashes less one. 
2Corinthians11:25 Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked—a night and a day I have spent in the deep." 
2Corinthians11:26 I have been on frequent journeys, in dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from my countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the desolate places, dangers on the sea, dangers among false brothers." 
2Corinthians11:27 I have been in labor and hardship, in many sleepless nights, in starvation and thirst, often hungry, in cold and without enough clothing." 
2Corinthians11:28 Apart from such external things, there is the daily pressure on me of concern for all the churches." 
2Corinthians11:29 Who is weak without my being weak? Who is made to stumble without my burning concern? 
2Corinthians11:30 If I have to boast, I will boast of what pertains to my weakness." 
2Corinthians11:31 The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying." 
2Corinthians11:32 In Damascus the ethnarch under Aretas the king was guarding the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me," 
2Corinthians11:33 and I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall, and so escaped his hands." 
2Corinthians12:1 It is necessary to boast, though it is not profitable, but I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord." 
2Corinthians12:2 I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago—whether in the body I do not know, or out of the body I do not know, God knows—such a man was caught up to the third heaven." 
2Corinthians12:3 And I know how such a man—whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, God knows—" 
2Corinthians12:4 was caught up into Paradise and heard inexpressible words, which a man is not permitted to speak." 
2Corinthians12:5 On behalf of such a man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except in weaknesses." 
2Corinthians12:6 For if I do wish to boast I will not be foolish, for I will be speaking the truth; but I refrain from this, so that no one will consider me beyond what he sees in me or hears from me." 
2Corinthians12:7 Because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, for this reason, to keep me from exalting myself, there was given me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me—to keep me from exalting myself!" 
2Corinthians12:8 Concerning this I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might leave me. 
2Corinthians12:9 And He has said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness.” Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast in my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me." 
2Corinthians12:10 Therefore I am well content with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions and hardships, for the sake of Christ, for when I am weak, then I am strong." 
2Corinthians12:11 I have become foolish; you yourselves compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you, for in no respect was I inferior to the most-eminent apostles, even if I am nothing." 
2Corinthians12:12 The signs of a true apostle were worked out among you with all perseverance, by signs and wonders and miracles." 
2Corinthians12:13 For in what respect were you treated as less than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not become a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong!" 
2Corinthians12:14 Here for this third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you; for I do not seek what is yours, but you. For children ought not to save up for their parents, but parents for their children." 
2Corinthians12:15 So I will most gladly spend and be fully spent for your souls. If I love you more, am I to be loved less?" 
2Corinthians12:16 But be that as it may, I did not burden you myself. Nevertheless, crafty fellow that I am, I took you in by deceit." 
2Corinthians12:17 Have I taken advantage of you through any of those whom I have sent to you? 
2Corinthians12:18 I encouraged Titus to go, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit—in the very same steps?" 
2Corinthians12:18 I encouraged Titus to go, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit—in the very same steps?" 
2Corinthians12:19 All this time you think we are defending ourselves to you. We speak in Christ in the sight of God. And all these things, beloved, are for your building up." 
2Corinthians12:20 For I am afraid that perhaps when I come I may find you to be not what I wish and may be found by you to be not what you wish; that perhaps there will be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambition, slanders, gossip, arrogance, disturbances." 
2Corinthians12:21 I am afraid that when I come again my God may humiliate me before you, and I may mourn over many of those who have sinned in the past and not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality which they have practiced." 
2Corinthians13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. By the mouth of two or three witnesses every matter shall be confirmed. 
2Corinthians13:2 I have previously said when present the second time, and though now absent I say in advance to those who have sinned in the past and to all the rest as well, that if I come again I will not spare anyone," 
2Corinthians13:3 since you are seeking proof that Christ speaks in me; He is not weak toward you, but mighty in you." 
2Corinthians13:4 For indeed He was crucified because of weakness, yet He lives because of the power of God. For we also are weak in Him, yet we will live with Him because of the power of God toward you." 
2Corinthians13:5 Test yourselves to see if you are in the faith; examine yourselves! Or do you not recognize about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you—unless indeed you fail the test? 
2Corinthians13:6 But I hope that you will realize that we ourselves do not fail the test. 
2Corinthians13:7 Now we pray to God that you do no wrong, not that we ourselves may appear approved, but that you may do what is right, even though we may appear unapproved." 
2Corinthians13:8 For we can do nothing against the truth, but only for the truth." 
2Corinthians13:9 For we rejoice when we ourselves are weak but you are strong. This we also pray for, that you be restored." 
2Corinthians13:10 For this reason I am writing these things while absent, so that when present I need not use severity, in accordance with the authority which the Lord gave me for building up and not for tearing down." 
2Corinthians13:11 Finally, brothers, rejoice, be restored, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you." 
2Corinthians13:12 Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
2Corinthians13:13 All the saints greet you. 
2Corinthians13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all." 
Galatians1:1 Paul, an apostle—not sent from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead—" 
Galatians1:2 and all the brothers who are with me, To the churches of Galatia:" 
Galatians1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ," 
Galatians1:4 who gave Himself for our sins so that He might rescue us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father," 
Galatians1:5 to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Galatians1:6 I marvel that you are so quickly deserting Him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel," 
Galatians1:7 which is really not another, only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ." 
Galatians1:8 But even if we, or an angel from heaven, should proclaim to you a gospel contrary to the gospel we have proclaimed to you, let him be accursed!" 
Galatians1:9 As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is proclaiming to you a gospel contrary to what you received, let him be accursed!" 
Galatians1:10 For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ." 
Galatians1:11 For I make known to you, brothers, that the gospel which I am proclaiming as good news is not according to man." 
Galatians1:12 For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ." 
Galatians1:13 For you have heard of my former conduct in Judaism, how I used to persecute the church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it." 
Galatians1:14 And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries among my countrymen, being far more zealous for the traditions of my fathers." 
Galatians1:15 But when God, who had set me apart from my mother’s womb and called me through His grace, was pleased" 
Galatians1:16 to reveal His Son in me so that I might proclaim Him as good news among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood," 
Galatians1:17 nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia, and returned once more to Damascus." 
Galatians1:18 Then three years later I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Cephas, and stayed with him fifteen days." 
Galatians1:19 But I did not see any other of the apostles except James, the Lord’s brother." 
Galatians1:19 But I did not see any other of the apostles except James, the Lord’s brother." 
Galatians1:20 (Now in what I am writing to you, I assure you before God that I am not lying!)" 
Galatians1:21 Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia. 
Galatians1:22 And I was still unknown by sight to the churches of Judea which are in Christ; 
Galatians1:22 And I was still unknown by sight to the churches of Judea which are in Christ; 
Galatians1:23 but only, they kept hearing, “He who once persecuted us is now proclaiming the good news of the faith which he once tried to destroy.”" 
Galatians1:24 And they were glorifying God because of me. 
Galatians2:1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along also." 
Galatians2:1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along also." 
Galatians2:2 And I went up because of a revelation, and I laid out to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but I did so in private to those who were of reputation, lest somehow I might be running, or had run, in vain." 
Galatians2:3 But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised." 
Galatians2:3 But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised." 
Galatians2:4 But this was because of the false brothers secretly brought in, who had sneaked in to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, in order to enslave us." 
Galatians2:5 But we did not yield in subjection to them for even a moment, so that the truth of the gospel would remain with you." 
Galatians2:6 But from those who were of high reputation (what they were makes no difference to me; God shows no partiality)—well, those who were of reputation contributed nothing to me." 
Galatians2:7 But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been to the circumcised" 
Galatians2:8 (for He who worked in Peter unto his apostleship to the circumcised worked in me also unto the Gentiles)," 
Galatians2:9 and recognizing the grace that had been given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we might go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised." 
Galatians2:9 and recognizing the grace that had been given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we might go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised." 
Galatians2:9 and recognizing the grace that had been given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we might go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised." 
Galatians2:10 Only they asked us to remember the poor—the very thing I also was eager to do. 
Galatians2:11 But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned." 
Galatians2:12 For prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to shrink back and separate himself, fearing the party of the circumcision." 
Galatians2:12 For prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to shrink back and separate himself, fearing the party of the circumcision." 
Galatians2:13 And the rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy." 
Galatians2:14 But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before everyone, “If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews?" 
Galatians2:15 “We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles; 
Galatians2:16 nevertheless knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the Law but through faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the Law; since by the works of the Law no flesh will be justified." 
Galatians2:17 But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves have also been found sinners, is Christ then a minister of sin? May it never be!" 
Galatians2:18 For if I rebuild what I have once destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor." 
Galatians2:19 For through the Law I died to the Law, so that I might live to God." 
Galatians2:20 I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me." 
Galatians2:21 I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the Law, then Christ died needlessly.”" 
Galatians3:1 O foolish Galatians, who bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified?" 
Galatians3:2 This is the only thing I want to learn from you: did you receive the Spirit by the works of the Law, or by hearing with faith?" 
Galatians3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?" 
Galatians3:4 Did you suffer so many things for nothing—if indeed it was for nothing? 
Galatians3:5 So then, does He who provides you with the Spirit and works miracles among you, do it by the works of the Law, or by hearing with faith?" 
Galatians3:6 Just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness," 
Galatians3:7 so know that those who are of faith, those are sons of Abraham." 
Galatians3:8 And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, proclaimed the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, “All the nations will be blessed in you.”" 
Galatians3:9 So then those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer." 
Galatians3:10 For as many as are of the works of the Law are under a curse, for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, to do them.”" 
Galatians3:11 Now that no one is justified by the Law before God is evident, for “The righteous shall live by faith.”" 
Galatians3:12 However, the Law is not of faith; rather, “He who does them shall live by them.”" 
Galatians3:13 Christ redeemed us from the curse of the Law, having become a curse for us—for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree”—" 
Galatians3:14 in order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith." 
Galatians3:15 Brothers, I speak in human terms: even though it is only a man’s covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one sets it aside or adds conditions to it." 
Galatians3:16 Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say, “And to seeds,” as referring to many, but rather to one, “And to your seed,” that is, Christ." 
Galatians3:17 And what I am saying is this: the Law, which came 430 years later, does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to abolish the promise." 
Galatians3:18 For if the inheritance is by law, it is no longer by promise, but God has granted it to Abraham through promise." 
Galatians3:19 Why the Law then? It was added because of trespasses, having been ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator, until the seed would come to whom the promise had been made." 
Galatians3:20 Now a mediator is not for one person only, whereas God is one." 
Galatians3:21 Is the Law then contrary to the promises of God? May it never be! For if a law had been given which was able to impart life, then righteousness would indeed be by law." 
Galatians3:22 But the Scripture has shut up everyone under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe." 
Galatians3:23 But before faith came, we were held in custody under the Law, being shut up for the coming faith to be revealed." 
Galatians3:24 Therefore the Law has become our tutor unto Christ, so that we may be justified by faith." 
Galatians3:25 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor." 
Galatians3:26 For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. 
Galatians3:27 For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. 
Galatians3:28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus." 
Galatians3:29 And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, heirs according to promise." 
Galatians4:1 Now I say, as long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave although he is owner of everything," 
Galatians4:2 but he is under guardians and stewards until the date set by the father. 
Galatians4:3 So also we, while we were children, were enslaved under the elemental things of the world." 
Galatians4:4 But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under the Law," 
Galatians4:5 so that He might redeem those who were under the Law, that we might receive the adoption as sons." 
Galatians4:6 And because you are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba! Father!”" 
Galatians4:7 Therefore you are no longer a slave, but a son; and if a son, then an heir through God." 
Galatians4:8 However at that time, when you did not know God, you were slaves to those which by nature are no gods." 
Galatians4:9 But now, having known God, or rather having been known by God, how is it that you turn back again to the weak and worthless elemental things, to which you want to be enslaved all over again?" 
Galatians4:10 You observe days and months and seasons and years. 
Galatians4:11 I fear for you, that perhaps I have labored over you for nothing." 
Galatians4:12 I beg of you, brothers, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You have done me no wrong." 
Galatians4:13 But you know that it was because of a bodily illness that I proclaimed the gospel to you the first time; 
Galatians4:14 and that which was a trial to you in my bodily condition you did not despise or loathe, but you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus Himself." 
Galatians4:15 Where then is that sense of blessing you had? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me." 
Galatians4:16 So have I become your enemy by telling you the truth? 
Galatians4:17 They zealously seek you, not commendably, but they wish to shut you out so that you will zealously seek them." 
Galatians4:18 But it is good always to be zealously sought in a commendable manner, and not only when I am present with you." 
Galatians4:19 My children, with whom I am again in labor until Christ is formed in you—" 
Galatians4:20 but I could wish to be present with you now and to change my tone, because I am perplexed about you." 
Galatians4:21 Tell me, you who want to be under law, do you not listen to the Law?" 
Galatians4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the servant-woman and one by the free woman." 
Galatians4:23 But the son by the servant-woman had been born according to the flesh, while the son by the free woman through the promise." 
Galatians4:24 This is spoken with allegory, for these women are two covenants: one from Mount Sinai bearing children into slavery; she is Hagar." 
Galatians4:25 Now this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children." 
Galatians4:26 But the Jerusalem above is free; she is our mother. 
Galatians4:27 For it is written, “Rejoice, barren woman who does not give birth; Break forth and shout, you who are not in labor; For more numerous are the children of the desolate one Than of the one who has a husband.”" 
Galatians4:28 And you brothers, in accordance with Isaac, are children of promise." 
Galatians4:29 But as at that time he who was born according to the flesh was persecuting him who was born according to the Spirit, so it is now also." 
Galatians4:30 But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the servant‑woman and her son, For the son of the servant‑woman shall not be an heir with the son of the free woman.”" 
Galatians4:31 So then, brothers, we are not children of a servant-woman, but of the free woman." 
Galatians5:1 It was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore, stand firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery." 
Galatians5:2 Behold I, Paul, say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you." 
Galatians5:3 And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision, that he is under obligation to keep the whole Law." 
Galatians5:4 You have been severed from Christ, you who are being justified by law; you have fallen from grace!" 
Galatians5:5 For we through the Spirit, by faith, are eagerly waiting for the hope of righteousness." 
Galatians5:6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith working through love." 
Galatians5:7 You were running well; who hindered you from obeying the truth? 
Galatians5:8 This persuasion is not from Him who calls you. 
Galatians5:9 A little leaven leavens the whole lump. 
Galatians5:10 I have confidence in you in the Lord that you will adopt no other view. But the one who is disturbing you will bear his judgment, whoever he is." 
Galatians5:11 But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross would have been abolished." 
Galatians5:12 I wish that those who are upsetting you would even mutilate themselves. 
Galatians5:13 For you were called to freedom, brothers; only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another." 
Galatians5:14 For the whole Law is fulfilled in one word, in this: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”" 
Galatians5:15 But if you bite and devour one another, beware that you are not consumed by one another." 
Galatians5:16 But I say, walk by the Spirit and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh." 
Galatians5:17 For the flesh sets its desire against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these are in opposition to one another, so that you do not do the things that you want." 
Galatians5:18 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the Law." 
Galatians5:19 Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality," 
Galatians5:20 idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambition, dissensions, factions," 
Galatians5:21 envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these, of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God." 
Galatians5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness," 
Galatians5:23 gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law." 
Galatians5:24 Now those who belong to Christ Jesus crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 
Galatians5:25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk in step with the Spirit." 
Galatians5:26 Let us not become those with vain glory, challenging one another, envying one another." 
Galatians6:1 Brothers, even if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each of you looking to yourself, so that you too will not be tempted." 
Galatians6:2 Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ." 
Galatians6:3 For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself." 
Galatians6:4 But each one must examine his own work, and then he will have reason for boasting in regard to himself alone, and not in regard to another." 
Galatians6:5 For each one will bear his own load. 
Galatians6:6 And the one who is instructed in the word is to share in all good things with the one who instructs him. 
Galatians6:7 Do not be deceived, God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap." 
Galatians6:8 For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life." 
Galatians6:9 And let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary." 
Galatians6:10 So then, while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially to those who are of the household of the faith." 
Galatians6:11 See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand! 
Galatians6:12 As many as are wanting to make a good showing in the flesh, these are trying to compel you to be circumcised, simply so that they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ." 
Galatians6:13 For those who are circumcised do not even keep the Law themselves, but they want to have you circumcised so that they may boast in your flesh." 
Galatians6:14 But may it never be that I would boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world." 
Galatians6:15 For neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation." 
Galatians6:16 And those who will walk in step with this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God." 
Galatians6:17 From now on let no one cause trouble for me, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus." 
Galatians6:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen." 
Ephesians1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the saints who are at Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus:" 
Ephesians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Ephesians1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ," 
Ephesians1:4 just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before Him in love," 
Ephesians1:5 by predestining us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will," 
Ephesians1:6 to the praise of the glory of His grace, which He graciously bestowed on us in the Beloved." 
Ephesians1:7 In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our transgressions, according to the riches of His grace" 
Ephesians1:8 which He caused to abound to us in all wisdom and insight," 
Ephesians1:9 making known to us the mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure which He purposed in Him" 
Ephesians1:10 for an administration of the fullness of the times, that is, the summing up of all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things on the earth in Him." 
Ephesians1:11 In Him, we also have been made an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His will," 
Ephesians1:12 to the end that we who first have hoped in Christ would be to the praise of His glory. 
Ephesians1:13 In Him, you also, after listening to the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation—having also believed, you were sealed in Him with the Holy Spirit of promise," 
Ephesians1:14 who is given as a pledge of our inheritance, unto the redemption of God’s own possession, to the praise of His glory." 
Ephesians1:15 For this reason I too, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which exists among you and your love for all the saints," 
Ephesians1:16 do not cease giving thanks for you, while making mention of you in my prayers:" 
Ephesians1:17 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the Spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the full knowledge of Him," 
Ephesians1:18 so that you—the eyes of your heart having been enlightened—will know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints," 
Ephesians1:19 and what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe according to the working of the might of His strength," 
Ephesians1:20 which He worked in Christ, by raising Him from the dead and seating Him at His right hand in the heavenly places," 
Ephesians1:21 far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come." 
Ephesians1:22 And He put all things in subjection under His feet, and gave Him as head over all things to the church," 
Ephesians1:23 which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills all in all." 
Ephesians2:1 And you were dead in your transgressions and sins," 
Ephesians2:2 in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the ruler of the power of the air, the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience," 
Ephesians2:3 among whom we all also formerly conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest." 
Ephesians2:4 But God, being rich in mercy because of His great love with which He loved us," 
Ephesians2:5 even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved—" 
Ephesians2:6 and raised us up with Him, and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus," 
Ephesians2:7 so that in the ages to come He might show the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. 
Ephesians2:8 For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves, it is the gift of God;" 
Ephesians2:9 not of works, so that no one may boast." 
Ephesians2:10 For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them." 
Ephesians2:11 Therefore, remember that formerly you—the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called “Uncircumcision” by the so-called “Circumcision,” which is performed in the flesh by human hands—" 
Ephesians2:12 remember that you were at that time without Christ, alienated from the citizenship of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world." 
Ephesians2:13 But now in Christ Jesus you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 
Ephesians2:14 For He Himself is our peace, who made both groups one and broke down the dividing wall of the partition" 
Ephesians2:15 by abolishing in His flesh the enmity, the Law of commandments contained in ordinances, so that in Himself He might create the two into one new man, making peace," 
Ephesians2:16 and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross, having in Himself put to death the enmity." 
Ephesians2:17 And He came and preached the good news of peace to you who were far away, and peace to those who were near;" 
Ephesians2:18 for through Him we both have our access in one Spirit to the Father. 
Ephesians2:19 So then you are no longer strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints, and are of God’s household," 
Ephesians2:20 having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the corner stone," 
Ephesians2:21 in whom the whole building, being joined together, is growing into a holy sanctuary in the Lord," 
Ephesians2:22 in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. 
Ephesians3:1 For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles—" 
Ephesians3:2 if indeed you heard of the stewardship of God’s grace which was given to me for you; 
Ephesians3:3 that by revelation there was made known to me the mystery, as I wrote before in brief." 
Ephesians3:4 About which, when you read you can understand my insight into the mystery of Christ," 
Ephesians3:5 which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it was now revealed to His holy apostles and prophets in the Spirit:" 
Ephesians3:6 that the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel," 
Ephesians3:7 of which I was made a minister, according to the gift of God’s grace which was given to me according to the working of His power." 
Ephesians3:8 To me, the very least of all saints, this grace was given, to proclaim to the Gentiles the good news of the unfathomable riches of Christ," 
Ephesians3:9 and to bring to light for all what is the administration of the mystery which for ages has been hidden in God who created all things; 
Ephesians3:10 so that the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known through the church to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly places. 
Ephesians3:11 This was in accordance with the eternal purpose which He carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord," 
Ephesians3:12 in whom we have boldness and confident access through faith in Him. 
Ephesians3:13 Therefore I ask you not to lose heart at my afflictions on your behalf, which are your glory." 
Ephesians3:14 For this reason I bow my knees before the Father," 
Ephesians3:15 from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named," 
Ephesians3:16 that He would give you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with power through His Spirit in the inner man," 
Ephesians3:17 so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; and that you, being firmly rooted and grounded in love," 
Ephesians3:18 may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth," 
Ephesians3:19 and to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled up to all the fullness of God." 
Ephesians3:20 Now to Him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or understand, according to the power that works within us," 
Ephesians3:21 to Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. 
Ephesians4:1 Therefore I, the prisoner in the Lord, exhort you to walk worthy of the calling with which you have been called," 
Ephesians4:2 with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love," 
Ephesians4:3 being diligent to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. 
Ephesians4:4 There is one body and one Spirit, just as also you were called in one hope of your calling;" 
Ephesians4:5 one Lord, one faith, one baptism;" 
Ephesians4:6 one God and Father of all who is over all and through all and in all. 
Ephesians4:7 But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ’s gift. 
Ephesians4:8 Therefore it says, “When He ascended on high, He led captive a host of captives, And He gave gifts to men.”" 
Ephesians4:9 (Now this expression, “He ascended,” what does it mean except that He also descended into the lower parts of the earth?" 
Ephesians4:10 He who descended is Himself also He who ascended far above all the heavens, so that He might fill all things.)" 
Ephesians4:11 And He Himself gave some as apostles, and some as prophets, and some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers," 
Ephesians4:12 for the equipping of the saints for the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ," 
Ephesians4:13 until we all attain to the unity of the faith, and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, to a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ," 
Ephesians4:14 so that we are no longer to be children, tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness in deceitful scheming," 
Ephesians4:15 but speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into Him who is the head, that is Christ," 
Ephesians4:16 from whom the whole body, being joined and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the properly measured working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love." 
Ephesians4:17 Therefore this I say, and testify in the Lord, that you walk no longer just as the Gentiles also walk, in the futility of their mind," 
Ephesians4:18 being darkened in their mind, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart." 
Ephesians4:19 And they, having become callous, have given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness." 
Ephesians4:20 But you did not learn Christ in this way— 
Ephesians4:21 if indeed you heard Him and were taught in Him, just as truth is in Jesus," 
Ephesians4:22 to lay aside, in reference to your former conduct, the old man, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit," 
Ephesians4:23 and to be renewed in the spirit of your mind," 
Ephesians4:24 and to put on the new man, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth." 
Ephesians4:25 Therefore, laying aside falsehood, speak truth each one of you with his neighbor, for we are members of one another." 
Ephesians4:26 Be angry, and yet do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger," 
Ephesians4:27 and do not give the devil an opportunity. 
Ephesians4:28 He who steals must steal no longer, but rather he must labor, performing with his own hands what is good, so that he will have something to share with one who has need." 
Ephesians4:29 Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for building up what is needed, so that it will give grace to those who hear." 
Ephesians4:30 And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption." 
Ephesians4:31 Let all bitterness and anger and wrath and shouting and slander be put away from you, along with all malice." 
Ephesians4:32 Instead, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, graciously forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has graciously forgiven you." 
Ephesians5:1 Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children," 
Ephesians5:2 and walk in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave Himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma." 
Ephesians5:3 But sexual immorality or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints;" 
Ephesians5:4 nor filthiness and foolish talk, or coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks." 
Ephesians5:5 For this you know with certainty, that no one sexually immoral or impure or greedy, who is an idolater, has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God." 
Ephesians5:6 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience." 
Ephesians5:7 Therefore do not be partakers with them," 
Ephesians5:8 for you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord; walk as children of light" 
Ephesians5:9 (for the fruit of that light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth)," 
Ephesians5:10 trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. 
Ephesians5:11 And do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead even expose them." 
Ephesians5:12 For it is disgraceful even to speak of the things which are done by them in secret. 
Ephesians5:13 But all things become visible when they are exposed by the light, for everything that becomes visible is light." 
Ephesians5:14 For this reason it says, “Awake, sleeper, And arise from the dead, And Christ will shine on you.”" 
Ephesians5:15 Therefore look carefully how you walk, not as unwise but as wise," 
Ephesians5:16 redeeming the time, because the days are evil." 
Ephesians5:17 On account of this, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is." 
Ephesians5:18 And do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit," 
Ephesians5:19 speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord;" 
Ephesians5:20 always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father;" 
Ephesians5:21 and being subject to one another in the fear of Christ. 
Ephesians5:22 Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the Lord." 
Ephesians5:23 For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, He Himself being the Savior of the body." 
Ephesians5:24 But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be to their husbands in everything." 
Ephesians5:25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself up for her," 
Ephesians5:26 so that He might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word," 
Ephesians5:27 that He might present to Himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless." 
Ephesians5:28 So husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself; 
Ephesians5:29 for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church," 
Ephesians5:30 because we are members of His body. 
Ephesians5:31 For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh." 
Ephesians5:32 This mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church." 
Ephesians5:33 Nevertheless, each individual among you also is to love his own wife even as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband." 
Ephesians6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right." 
Ephesians6:2 Honor your father and mother (which is the first commandment with a promise)," 
Ephesians6:3 so that it may be well with you, and that you may live long in the land." 
Ephesians6:4 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord." 
Ephesians6:5 Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the integrity of your heart, as to Christ;" 
Ephesians6:6 not by way of eyeservice, as men-pleasers, but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart," 
Ephesians6:7 serving with good will as to the Lord, and not to men," 
Ephesians6:8 knowing that whatever good thing each one does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether slave or free." 
Ephesians6:9 And masters, do the same things to them, giving up threatening, knowing that both their Master and yours is in heaven, and there is no partiality with Him." 
Ephesians6:10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the might of His strength." 
Ephesians6:11 Put on the full armor of God, so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil." 
Ephesians6:12 For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places." 
Ephesians6:13 Therefore, take up the full armor of God, so that you will be able to resist in the evil day, and having done everything, to stand firm." 
Ephesians6:14 Stand firm therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness," 
Ephesians6:15 and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. 
Ephesians6:16 In addition to all, having taken up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one," 
Ephesians6:17 also receive the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God," 
Ephesians6:18 praying at all times with all prayer and petition in the Spirit, and to this end, being on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints," 
Ephesians6:19 as well as on my behalf, that words may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel—" 
Ephesians6:20 for which I am an ambassador in chains—so that in proclaiming it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak." 
Ephesians6:21 But that you also may know about all my affairs, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful servant in the Lord, will make everything known to you." 
Ephesians6:22 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, so that you may know our circumstances, and that he may encourage your hearts." 
Ephesians6:23 Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
Ephesians6:24 Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love. 
Philippians1:1 Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:" 
Philippians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Philippians1:3 I thank my God in all my remembrance of you," 
Philippians1:4 always offering prayer with joy in my every prayer for you all," 
Philippians1:5 because of your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. 
Philippians1:6 For I am confident of this very thing, that He who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus." 
Philippians1:7 For it is only right for me to think this way about you all, because I have you in my heart, since both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are fellow partakers with me in this grace." 
Philippians1:8 For God is my witness, how I long for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus." 
Philippians1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in full knowledge and all discernment," 
Philippians1:10 so that you may approve the things that are excellent, in order to be sincere and without fault until the day of Christ," 
Philippians1:11 having been filled with the fruit of righteousness which comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God." 
Philippians1:12 Now I want you to know, brothers, that my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel," 
Philippians1:13 so that my chains in Christ have become well known throughout the whole praetorian guard and to everyone else," 
Philippians1:14 and that most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord because of my chains, have far more courage to speak the word of God without fear." 
Philippians1:15 Some, to be sure, are preaching Christ even from envy and strife, but some also from good will;" 
Philippians1:16 the latter do it out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel;" 
Philippians1:17 the former proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition rather than from pure motives, thinking to cause me affliction in my chains." 
Philippians1:18 What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice," 
Philippians1:19 for I know that this will turn out for my salvation through your prayers and the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ," 
Philippians1:20 according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will not be put to shame in anything, but that with all boldness, Christ will even now, as always, be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death." 
Philippians1:21 For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain." 
Philippians1:22 But if I am to live on in the flesh, this will mean fruitful labor for me; and I do not know what I will choose." 
Philippians1:23 But I am hard-pressed between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for that is very much better," 
Philippians1:24 yet to remain on in the flesh is more necessary for your sake. 
Philippians1:25 And convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith," 
Philippians1:26 so that your reason for boasting may abound in Christ Jesus in me, through my coming to you again." 
Philippians1:27 Only live your lives in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear about your circumstances, that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind contending together for the faith of the gospel," 
Philippians1:28 in no way alarmed by your opponents—which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too, from God." 
Philippians1:29 For to you it has been granted for Christ’s sake, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake," 
Philippians1:30 having the same struggle which you saw in me, and now hear to be in me." 
Philippians2:1 Therefore if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion," 
Philippians2:2 fulfill my joy, that you think the same way, by maintaining the same love, being united in spirit, thinking on one purpose," 
Philippians2:3 doing nothing from selfish ambition or vain glory, but with humility of mind regarding one another as more important than yourselves," 
Philippians2:4 not merely looking out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others." 
Philippians2:5 Have this way of thinking in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus," 
Philippians2:6 who, although existing in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped," 
Philippians2:7 but emptied Himself, by taking the form of a slave, by being made in the likeness of men." 
Philippians2:8 Being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross." 
Philippians2:9 Therefore, God also highly exalted Him, and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name," 
Philippians2:10 so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth," 
Philippians2:11 and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father." 
Philippians2:12 So then, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling;" 
Philippians2:13 for it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work for His good pleasure." 
Philippians2:14 Do all things without grumbling or disputing," 
Philippians2:15 so that you will be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world," 
Philippians2:16 holding fast the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to boast because I did not run in vain nor labor in vain." 
Philippians2:17 But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and share my joy with you all." 
Philippians2:18 And you also, rejoice in the same way and share your joy with me." 
Philippians2:19 But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, so that I also may be in good spirits when I learn of your circumstances." 
Philippians2:20 For I have no one else of kindred spirit who will genuinely be concerned about your circumstances. 
Philippians2:21 For they all seek after their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus." 
Philippians2:22 But you know of his proven worth, that he served with me in the furtherance of the gospel like a child serving his father." 
Philippians2:23 Therefore I hope to send him immediately, as soon as I evaluate my own circumstances," 
Philippians2:24 and I am confident in the Lord that I myself also will be coming shortly. 
Philippians2:25 But I regarded it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, who is also your messenger and minister to my need;" 
Philippians2:26 because he was longing for you all and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. 
Philippians2:27 For indeed he was sick to the point of death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me, so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow." 
Philippians2:28 Therefore I have sent him all the more eagerly so that when you see him again you may rejoice and I may be less concerned. 
Philippians2:29 Receive him then in the Lord with all joy, and hold men like him in high regard" 
Philippians2:30 because he came close to death for the work of Christ, risking his life to fulfill what was lacking in your service to me." 
Philippians3:1 Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things again is no trouble to me, and it is a safeguard for you." 
Philippians3:2 Beware of the dogs! Beware of the evil workers! Beware of the mutilation! 
Philippians3:3 For we are the circumcision, who worship in the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh," 
Philippians3:4 although I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. If anyone else has a mind to put confidence in the flesh, I far more:" 
Philippians3:5 circumcised the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the Law, a Pharisee;" 
Philippians3:5 circumcised the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the Law, a Pharisee;" 
Philippians3:6 as to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to the righteousness which is in the Law, found blameless." 
Philippians3:7 But whatever things were gain to me, those things I have counted as loss for the sake of Christ." 
Philippians3:8 More than that, I count all things to be loss because of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish so that I may gain Christ" 
Philippians3:9 and be found in Him, not having a righteousness of my own which is from the Law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God upon faith," 
Philippians3:10 that I may know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death," 
Philippians3:11 in order that I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. 
Philippians3:12 Not that I have already obtained it or have already become perfect, but I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus." 
Philippians3:13 Brothers, I do not consider myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead," 
Philippians3:14 I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. 
Philippians3:15 Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, think this way; and if in anything you think differently, God will reveal that also to you." 
Philippians3:16 However, let us keep walking in step with the same standard to which we have attained." 
Philippians3:17 Brothers, join in following my example, and look for those who walk according to the pattern you have in us." 
Philippians3:18 For many walk—of whom I often told you, and now tell you even crying—as enemies of the cross of Christ," 
Philippians3:19 whose end is destruction, whose god is their stomach and glory is in their shame, who set their thoughts on earthly things." 
Philippians3:20 For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ," 
Philippians3:21 who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of His glory, by His working through which He is able to even subject all things to Himself." 
Philippians4:1 Therefore my brothers, loved and longed for, my joy and crown, in this way stand firm in the Lord, my beloved." 
Philippians4:2 I urge Euodia and I urge Syntyche to think the same way in the Lord. 
Philippians4:3 Indeed, I ask you also, genuine companion, help these women who have contended together alongside of me in the gospel, with also Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life." 
Philippians4:4 Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice!" 
Philippians4:5 Let your considerate spirit be known to all men. The Lord is near. 
Philippians4:6 Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God." 
Philippians4:7 And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus." 
Philippians4:8 Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is dignified, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence and if anything worthy of praise, consider these things." 
Philippians4:9 The things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you." 
Philippians4:10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at last you have revived thinking about me; indeed, you were thinking about me before, but you lacked opportunity." 
Philippians4:11 Not that I speak from want, for I learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am." 
Philippians4:12 I know how to get along with humble means, and I also know how to live in abundance; in any and all things I have learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering need." 
Philippians4:13 I can do all things through Him who strengthens me. 
Philippians4:14 Nevertheless, you have done well to fellowship with me in my affliction." 
Philippians4:15 And you yourselves also know, Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel, after I left Macedonia, no church fellowshipped with me in the matter of giving and receiving but you alone." 
Philippians4:16 For even in Thessalonica you sent a gift more than once for my needs. 
Philippians4:17 Not that I seek the gift itself, but I seek the fruit which increases to your account." 
Philippians4:18 But I have received everything in full and have an abundance; I have been filled, having received from Epaphroditus what you have sent, a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God." 
Philippians4:19 And my God will fulfill all your needs according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. 
Philippians4:20 Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Philippians4:21 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 
Philippians4:22 All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar’s household." 
Philippians4:23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. 
Colossians1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother," 
Colossians1:2 To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ in Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father. 
Colossians1:3 We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you," 
Colossians1:4 since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love which you have for all the saints," 
Colossians1:5 because of the hope laid up for you in heaven, of which you previously heard in the word of truth, the gospel" 
Colossians1:6 which has come to you, just as in all the world also it is constantly bearing fruit and multiplying, just as it has been doing in you also since the day you heard and understood the grace of God in truth;" 
Colossians1:7 just as you learned it from Epaphras, our beloved fellow slave, who is a faithful servant of Christ on our behalf," 
Colossians1:8 who also informed us of your love in the Spirit. 
Colossians1:9 For this reason also, since the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the full knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding," 
Colossians1:10 so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please Him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work and multiplying in the full knowledge of God;" 
Colossians1:11 being strengthened with all power, according to His glorious might, for the attaining of all steadfastness and patience; joyously" 
Colossians1:12 giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light." 
Colossians1:13 Who rescued us from the authority of darkness, and transferred us to the kingdom of the Son of His love," 
Colossians1:14 in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins." 
Colossians1:15 Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation." 
Colossians1:16 For in Him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities—all things have been created through Him and for Him." 
Colossians1:17 And He is before all things, And in Him all things hold together." 
Colossians1:18 And He is the head of the body, the church; Who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that He Himself will come to have first place in everything." 
Colossians1:19 For in Him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell," 
Colossians1:20 And through Him to reconcile all things to Himself, having made peace through the blood of His cross—through Him—whether things on earth or things in heaven." 
Colossians1:21 And although you were formerly alienated and enemies in mind and in evil deeds," 
Colossians1:22 but now He reconciled you in the body of His flesh through death, in order to present you before Him holy and blameless and beyond reproach—" 
Colossians1:23 if indeed you continue in the faith firmly grounded and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the gospel, which you have heard, which was proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, was made a minister." 
Colossians1:24 Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and I fill up what is lacking of Christ’s afflictions in my flesh, on behalf of His body, which is the church," 
Colossians1:25 of which I was made a minister according to the stewardship from God given to me for you, so that I might fully carry out the preaching of the word of God," 
Colossians1:26 that is, the mystery which has been hidden from the past ages and generations, but has now been manifested to His saints," 
Colossians1:27 to whom God willed to make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory." 
Colossians1:28 Him we proclaim, admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom, so that we may present every man complete in Christ." 
Colossians1:29 For this purpose I also labor, striving according to His working, which He works in me in power." 
Colossians2:1 For I want you to understand how great a struggle I have on your behalf and for those who are at Laodicea, and for all those who have not seen my face in the flesh," 
Colossians2:2 so that their hearts may be encouraged, having been held together in love, even unto all the wealth of the full assurance of understanding, unto the full knowledge of God’s mystery, that is, Christ Himself," 
Colossians2:3 in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. 
Colossians2:4 I say this so that no one will delude you with persuasive argument. 
Colossians2:5 For even though I am absent in body, nevertheless I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the stability of your faith in Christ." 
Colossians2:6 Therefore as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him," 
Colossians2:7 having been firmly rooted and being built up in Him, and having been established in your faith—just as you were instructed—and abounding with thanksgiving." 
Colossians2:8 See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, and not according to Christ." 
Colossians2:9 For in Him all the fullness of Deity dwells bodily," 
Colossians2:10 and in Him you have been filled, who is the head over all rule and authority;" 
Colossians2:11 in whom you were also circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, in the removal of the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ," 
Colossians2:12 having been buried with Him in baptism, in which you were also raised up with Him through faith in the working of God, who raised Him from the dead." 
Colossians2:13 And you being dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made you alive with Him, having graciously forgiven us all our transgressions." 
Colossians2:14 Having canceled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us which was hostile to us, He also has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross." 
Colossians2:15 Having disarmed the rulers and authorities, He made a public display of them, having triumphed over them in Him." 
Colossians2:16 Therefore, no one is to judge you in food and drink, or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day—" 
Colossians2:17 things which are only a shadow of what is to come; but the substance belongs to Christ. 
Colossians2:18 Let no one keep defrauding you of your prize by delighting in self-abasement and the worship of the angels, going into detail about visions he has seen, being puffed up for nothing by his fleshly mind," 
Colossians2:19 and not holding fast to the head, from whom the entire body, being supplied and held together by the joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God." 
Colossians2:20 If you have died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world, why, as if you were living in the world, do you submit yourself to decrees:" 
Colossians2:21 “Do not handle, nor taste, nor touch”?" 
Colossians2:22 Which deal with everything destined to perish with use, which are in accordance with the commands and teachings of men;" 
Colossians2:23 which are matters having, to be sure, a word of wisdom in self-made religion and self-abasement and severe treatment of the body, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence." 
Colossians3:1 Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God." 
Colossians3:2 Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth." 
Colossians3:3 For you died and your life has been hidden with Christ in God. 
Colossians3:4 When Christ, who is our life, is manifested, then you also will be manifested with Him in glory." 
Colossians3:5 Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which is idolatry." 
Colossians3:6 On account of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience," 
Colossians3:7 and in them you also once walked, when you were living in them." 
Colossians3:8 But now you also, lay them all aside: wrath, anger, malice, slander, and abusive speech from your mouth." 
Colossians3:9 Do not lie to one another, since you put off the old man with its evil practices," 
Colossians3:10 and have put on the new man who is being renewed to a full knowledge according to the image of the One who created him— 
Colossians3:11 a renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, and freeman, but Christ is all and in all." 
Colossians3:12 So, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience;" 
Colossians3:13 bearing with one another, and graciously forgiving each other, whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord graciously forgave you, so also should you." 
Colossians3:14 Above all these things put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity." 
Colossians3:15 And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful." 
Colossians3:16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, with all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with gratefulness in your hearts to God." 
Colossians3:17 And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him." 
Colossians3:18 Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord." 
Colossians3:19 Husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them." 
Colossians3:20 Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is pleasing to the Lord." 
Colossians3:21 Fathers, do not exasperate your children, so that they will not lose heart." 
Colossians3:22 Slaves, in all things obey those who are your masters according to the flesh, not with eyeservice, as men-pleasers, but with integrity of heart, fearing the Lord." 
Colossians3:23 Whatever you do, do your work heartily, as for the Lord rather than for men," 
Colossians3:24 knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. Serve the Lord Christ. 
Colossians3:25 For he who does wrong will receive the consequences of the wrong which he has done, and that without partiality." 
Colossians4:1 Masters, show to your slaves what is right and fair, knowing that you too have a Master in heaven." 
Colossians4:2 Devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving;" 
Colossians4:3 praying at the same time for us as well, that God will open up to us a door for the word, so that we may speak the mystery of Christ, for which I have also been bound," 
Colossians4:4 that I may make it manifest in the way I ought to speak. 
Colossians4:5 Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, redeeming the time." 
Colossians4:6 Let your words always be with grace, seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person." 
Colossians4:7 Tychicus, our beloved brother and faithful servant and fellow slave in the Lord, will make known to you all my affairs," 
Colossians4:8 whom I have sent to you for this very purpose, that you may know about our circumstances and that he may encourage your hearts;" 
Colossians4:9 and with him Onesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will inform you about the whole situation here." 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sends you his greetings; and also Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions; if he comes to you, welcome him);" 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sends you his greetings; and also Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions; if he comes to you, welcome him);" 
Colossians4:11 and also Jesus who is called Justus. These are the only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are from the circumcision, and they have proved to be a comfort to me." 
Colossians4:12 Epaphras, who is one of your number, a slave of Christ Jesus, sends you his greetings, always striving for you in his prayers, that you may stand complete and fully assured in all the will of God." 
Colossians4:13 For I testify for him that he has a deep concern for you and for those who are in Laodicea and Hierapolis. 
Colossians4:14 Luke, the beloved physician, sends you his greetings, and also Demas." 
Colossians4:14 Luke, the beloved physician, sends you his greetings, and also Demas." 
Colossians4:15 Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea and also Nympha and the church that is in her house. 
Colossians4:16 And when this letter is read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans; and you, for your part read my letter that is coming from Laodicea." 
Colossians4:17 And say to Archippus, “Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you may fulfill it.”" 
Colossians4:18 The greeting is in my own hand—Paul. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. 
1Thessalonians1:1 Paul and Silvanus and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace." 
1Thessalonians1:2 We give thanks to God always for all of you, making mention of you in our prayers;" 
1Thessalonians1:3 remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ before our God and Father," 
1Thessalonians1:4 knowing, brothers beloved by God, your election," 
1Thessalonians1:5 for our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full assurance; just as you know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake." 
1Thessalonians1:6 You also became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit," 
1Thessalonians1:7 so that you became a model to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. 
1Thessalonians1:8 For the word of the Lord has sounded forth from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith toward God has gone forth, so that we have no need to say anything." 
1Thessalonians1:9 For they themselves report about us what kind of an entrance we had with you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve a living and true God," 
1Thessalonians1:10 and to wait for His Son from heaven, whom He raised from the dead, Jesus, who rescues us from the wrath to come." 
1Thessalonians2:1 For you yourselves know, brothers, that our entrance to you was not in vain," 
1Thessalonians2:2 but after we had already suffered and been mistreated in Philippi, as you know, we had the boldness in our God to speak to you the gospel of God amid much struggle." 
1Thessalonians2:3 For our exhortation does not come from error or impurity or by way of deceit; 
1Thessalonians2:4 but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who examines our hearts." 
1Thessalonians2:5 For we never came with a flattering word, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed—God is witness—" 
1Thessalonians2:6 nor seeking glory from men, either from you or from others, even though as apostles of Christ we could have been a burden to you." 
1Thessalonians2:7 But we proved to be gentle among you, as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children." 
1Thessalonians2:8 In this way, having fond affection for you, we were pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own lives, because you had become beloved to us." 
1Thessalonians2:9 For you remember, brothers, our labor and hardship, how working night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of God." 
1Thessalonians2:10 You are witnesses, and so is God, of how devoutly and righteously and blamelessly we behaved toward you believers;" 
1Thessalonians2:11 just as you know how we were exhorting and encouraging and bearing witness to each one of you as a father would his own children," 
1Thessalonians2:12 so that you would walk in a manner worthy of the God who calls you into His own kingdom and glory. 
1Thessalonians2:13 And for this reason we also thank God without ceasing that when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but for what it really is, the word of God, which also is at work in you who believe." 
1Thessalonians2:14 For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, for you also suffered the same things at the hands of your own countrymen, even as they did from the Jews," 
1Thessalonians2:14 For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, for you also suffered the same things at the hands of your own countrymen, even as they did from the Jews," 
1Thessalonians2:15 who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove us out, and do not please God, and are hostile to all men," 
1Thessalonians2:16 hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles so that they may be saved; with the result that they always fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them to the utmost. 
1Thessalonians2:17 But we, brothers, having been taken away from you for a short while—in face but not in heart—were all the more eager with great desire to see your face." 
1Thessalonians2:18 For we wanted to come to you—I, Paul, more than once—and yet Satan hindered us." 
1Thessalonians2:19 For who is our hope or joy or crown of boasting? Is it not even you, before our Lord Jesus at His coming?" 
1Thessalonians2:20 For you are our glory and joy. 
1Thessalonians3:1 Therefore when we could endure it no longer, we were pleased to be left behind at Athens alone," 
1Thessalonians3:2 and we sent Timothy, our brother and God’s fellow worker in the gospel of Christ, to strengthen and encourage you as to your faith," 
1Thessalonians3:3 so that no one would be shaken by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we have been destined for this." 
1Thessalonians3:4 For indeed when we were with you, we kept telling you in advance that we were going to suffer affliction, just as it happened and as you know." 
1Thessalonians3:5 For this reason, when I could endure it no longer, I also sent to know about your faith, lest somehow the tempter has tempted you, and our labor be in vain." 
1Thessalonians3:6 But now that Timothy has come to us from you, and has brought us good news of your faith and love, and that you always remember us kindly, longing to see us just as we also long to see you," 
1Thessalonians3:7 for this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction we were comforted about you through your faith;" 
1Thessalonians3:8 for now we really live, if you stand firm in the Lord." 
1Thessalonians3:9 For what thanks can we render to God for you in return for all the joy with which we rejoice before our God because of you," 
1Thessalonians3:10 as we night and day keep praying most earnestly that we may see your face, and may complete what is lacking in your faith?" 
1Thessalonians3:11 Now may our God and Father Himself and Jesus our Lord direct our way to you," 
1Thessalonians3:12 and may the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love for one another, and for all people, just as we also do for you," 
1Thessalonians3:13 so that He may strengthen your hearts blameless in holiness, before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His saints." 
1Thessalonians4:1 Finally then, brothers, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that as you received from us as to how you ought to walk and please God (just as you actually do walk), that you excel still more." 
1Thessalonians4:2 For you know what commandments we gave you through the Lord Jesus. 
1Thessalonians4:3 For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality;" 
1Thessalonians4:4 that each of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor," 
1Thessalonians4:5 not in lustful passion, like the Gentiles who do not know God;" 
1Thessalonians4:6 and that no man transgress and defraud his brother in the matter because the Lord is the avenger in all these things, just as we also told you before and solemnly warned you." 
1Thessalonians4:7 For God did not call us to impurity, but in sanctification." 
1Thessalonians4:8 Consequently, he who sets this aside is not setting aside man but the God who gives His Holy Spirit to you." 
1Thessalonians4:9 Now concerning love of the brothers, you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another," 
1Thessalonians4:10 for indeed you do practice it toward all the brothers who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to excel still more," 
1Thessalonians4:11 and to make it your ambition to lead a quiet life and attend to your own business and work with your hands, just as we commanded you," 
1Thessalonians4:12 so that you will walk properly toward outsiders and not be in any need. 
1Thessalonians4:13 But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, so that you will not grieve as do the rest who have no hope." 
1Thessalonians4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with Him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus." 
1Thessalonians4:15 For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep." 
1Thessalonians4:16 For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first." 
1Thessalonians4:17 Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall always be with the Lord." 
1Thessalonians4:18 Therefore comfort one another with these words. 
1Thessalonians5:1 Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need of anything to be written to you." 
1Thessalonians5:2 For you yourselves know full well that the day of the Lord will come just like a thief in the night. 
1Thessalonians5:3 While they are saying, “Peace and safety!” then destruction will come upon them suddenly like labor pains upon a woman who is pregnant, and they will never escape." 
1Thessalonians5:4 But you, brothers, are not in darkness, that the day would overtake you like a thief," 
1Thessalonians5:5 for you are all sons of light and sons of day. We are not of night nor of darkness; 
1Thessalonians5:6 so then let us not sleep as others do, but let us be awake and sober." 
1Thessalonians5:7 For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, get drunk at night." 
1Thessalonians5:8 But since we are of the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation." 
1Thessalonians5:9 For God has not appointed us for wrath, but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Thessalonians5:10 who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we will live together with Him." 
1Thessalonians5:11 Therefore, comfort one another and build up one another, just as you also are doing." 
1Thessalonians5:12 But we ask of you, brothers, that you know those who labor among you, and lead you in the Lord and admonish you," 
1Thessalonians5:13 and that you regard them very highly in love because of their work. Live in peace with one another. 
1Thessalonians5:14 And we urge you, brothers, admonish the unruly, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with everyone." 
1Thessalonians5:15 See that no one repays another with evil for evil, but always seek after that which is good for one another and for all people." 
1Thessalonians5:16 Rejoice always; 
1Thessalonians5:17 pray without ceasing; 
1Thessalonians5:18 in everything give thanks, for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus." 
1Thessalonians5:19 Do not quench the Spirit; 
1Thessalonians5:20 do not despise prophecies," 
1Thessalonians5:21 but examine all things; hold fast to that which is good; 
1Thessalonians5:22 abstain from every form of evil. 
1Thessalonians5:23 Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you entirely, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
1Thessalonians5:24 Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it." 
1Thessalonians5:25 Brothers, pray for us." 
1Thessalonians5:26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
1Thessalonians5:27 I implore you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. 
1Thessalonians5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
2Thessalonians1:1 Paul and Silvanus and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:" 
2Thessalonians1:2 Grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
2Thessalonians1:3 We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is only fitting, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of each one of you all toward one another increases all the more," 
2Thessalonians1:4 so that we ourselves boast about you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. 
2Thessalonians1:5 This is a plain indication of God’s righteous judgment so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which indeed you are suffering." 
2Thessalonians1:6 Since it is right for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you," 
2Thessalonians1:7 and to give rest to you who are afflicted and to us as well at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with His mighty angels in flaming fire," 
2Thessalonians1:8 executing vengeance on those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. 
2Thessalonians1:9 These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His might," 
2Thessalonians1:10 when He comes to be glorified in His saints on that day, and to be marveled at among all who have believed—for our witness to you was believed." 
2Thessalonians1:11 To this end also we pray for you always, that our God will count you worthy of your calling, and fulfill all your good pleasure for goodness and the work of faith with power," 
2Thessalonians1:12 so that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:1 Now we ask you, brothers, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him," 
2Thessalonians2:2 that you not be quickly shaken in your mind or be alarmed whether by a spirit or a word or a letter as if from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come." 
2Thessalonians2:3 Let no one in any way deceive you, for it has not come unless the apostasy comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction," 
2Thessalonians2:4 who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the sanctuary of God, exhibiting himself as being God." 
2Thessalonians2:5 Do you not remember that while I was still with you, I was telling you these things?" 
2Thessalonians2:6 And you know what restrains him now, so that in his time he will be revealed." 
2Thessalonians2:7 For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work; only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way. 
2Thessalonians2:8 And then that lawless one will be revealed—whom the Lord Jesus will slay with the breath of His mouth and bring to an end by the appearance of His coming— 
2Thessalonians2:9 whose coming is in accord with the working of Satan, with all power and signs and false wonders," 
2Thessalonians2:10 and with all the deception of unrighteousness for those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth so as to be saved." 
2Thessalonians2:11 And for this reason God sends upon them a deluding influence so that they will believe what is false," 
2Thessalonians2:12 in order that they all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in unrighteousness." 
2Thessalonians2:13 But we should always give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God has chosen you as the first fruits for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth." 
2Thessalonians2:14 It was for this He called you through our gospel, that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Thessalonians2:15 So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions which you were taught, whether by word of mouth or by letter from us." 
2Thessalonians2:16 Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father, who has loved us and given us eternal comfort and good hope by grace," 
2Thessalonians2:17 encourage your hearts and strengthen them in every good work and word. 
2Thessalonians3:1 Finally, brothers, pray for us that the word of the Lord will spread rapidly and be glorified, just as it did also with you;" 
2Thessalonians3:2 and that we will be rescued from perverse and evil men, for not all have faith." 
2Thessalonians3:3 But the Lord is faithful, who will strengthen and guard you from the evil one." 
2Thessalonians3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will continue to do what we command." 
2Thessalonians3:5 And may the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the steadfastness of Christ. 
2Thessalonians3:6 Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from every brother who walks in an unruly manner and not according to the tradition which they received from us." 
2Thessalonians3:7 For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we did not act in an unruly manner among you," 
2Thessalonians3:8 nor did we eat anyone’s bread without paying for it, but with labor and hardship we kept working night and day so that we would not be a burden to any of you;" 
2Thessalonians3:9 not because we do not have the authority, but in order to offer ourselves as a model for you, so that you would imitate us." 
2Thessalonians3:10 For even when we were with you, we used to command this to you: if anyone is not willing to work, neither let him eat." 
2Thessalonians3:11 For we hear that some among you are walking in an unruly manner, doing no work at all, but acting like busybodies." 
2Thessalonians3:12 Now such persons we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ, that working with quietness, they eat their own bread." 
2Thessalonians3:13 But as for you, brothers, do not lose heart in doing good." 
2Thessalonians3:14 And if anyone does not obey our word in this letter, take special note of that person to not associate with him, so that he will be put to shame." 
2Thessalonians3:15 And yet do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother." 
2Thessalonians3:16 Now may the Lord of peace Himself continually give you peace in every circumstance. The Lord be with you all! 
2Thessalonians3:17 The greeting is in my own hand—Paul, which is a distinguishing mark in every letter; this is the way I write." 
2Thessalonians3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. 
1Timothy1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus according to the commandment of God our Savior, and of Christ Jesus, our hope," 
1Timothy1:2 To Timothy, my genuine child in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord." 
1Timothy1:3 As I exhorted you when going to Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus so that you may command certain ones not to teach a different doctrine," 
1Timothy1:4 nor to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which give rise to mere speculation rather than furthering the stewardship from God which is by faith." 
1Timothy1:5 But the goal of our command is love from a pure heart and a good conscience and an unhypocritical faith. 
1Timothy1:6 For some, straying from these things, have turned aside to fruitless discussion," 
1Timothy1:7 wanting to be teachers of the Law, even though they do not understand either what they are saying or the matters about which they make confident assertions." 
1Timothy1:8 But we know that the Law is good, if one uses it lawfully," 
1Timothy1:9 knowing this, that law is not made for a righteous person, but for those who are lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and godless, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers," 
1Timothy1:10 for sexually immoral persons, for homosexuals, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound teaching," 
1Timothy1:11 according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I have been entrusted." 
1Timothy1:12 I am grateful to Christ Jesus our Lord, who has strengthened me, because He regarded me faithful, putting me into service," 
1Timothy1:13 even though I was formerly a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent aggressor. Yet I was shown mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief; 
1Timothy1:14 and the grace of our Lord was more than abundant, with the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus." 
1Timothy1:15 It is a trustworthy saying and deserving full acceptance: that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, among whom I am foremost." 
1Timothy1:16 Yet for this reason I was shown mercy, so that in me as the foremost, Christ Jesus might demonstrate all His patience as an example for those who are going to believe upon Him for eternal life." 
1Timothy1:17 Now to the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen." 
1Timothy1:18 This command I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you may fight the good fight," 
1Timothy1:19 keeping faith and a good conscience, which some, having rejected, suffered shipwreck in regard to their faith." 
1Timothy1:20 Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan, so that they will be taught not to blaspheme." 
1Timothy2:1 First of all, then, I exhort that petitions and prayers, requests and thanksgivings, be made for all men," 
1Timothy2:2 for kings and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity." 
1Timothy2:3 This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior," 
1Timothy2:4 who desires all men to be saved and to come to the full knowledge of the truth. 
1Timothy2:5 For there is one God, and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus," 
1Timothy2:6 who gave Himself as a ransom for all, the witness for this proper time." 
1Timothy2:7 For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle (I am telling the truth, I am not lying) as a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth." 
1Timothy2:8 Therefore I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and dissension." 
1Timothy2:9 Likewise, I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, with modesty and self-restraint, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly clothing," 
1Timothy2:10 but rather by means of good works, as is proper for women professing godliness." 
1Timothy2:11 A woman must learn in quietness, in all submission." 
1Timothy2:12 But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet." 
1Timothy2:13 For it was Adam who was first formed, and then Eve." 
1Timothy2:14 And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being deceived, fell into trespass." 
1Timothy2:15 But she will be saved through the bearing of children, if they continue in faith and love and sanctification with self-restraint." 
1Timothy3:1 It is a trustworthy saying: if any man aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a good work." 
1Timothy3:2 An overseer, then, must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, respectable, hospitable, able to teach," 
1Timothy3:3 not addicted to wine or pugnacious, but considerate, peaceable, free from the love of money;" 
1Timothy3:4 leading his own household well, having his children in submission with all dignity" 
1Timothy3:5 (but if a man does not know how to lead his own household, how will he take care of the church of God?)," 
1Timothy3:6 and not a new convert, so that he will not become conceited and fall into the condemnation of the devil." 
1Timothy3:7 And he must have a good reputation with those outside the church, so that he will not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil." 
1Timothy3:8 Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not indulging in much wine, not fond of dishonest gain," 
1Timothy3:9 but holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. 
1Timothy3:10 And these men must also first be tested; then let them serve as deacons if they are beyond reproach. 
1Timothy3:11 Women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, faithful in all things." 
1Timothy3:12 Deacons must be husbands of only one wife, leading their children and their own households well." 
1Timothy3:13 For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a high standing and great boldness in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. 
1Timothy3:14 I am writing these things to you, hoping to come to you soon," 
1Timothy3:15 but in case I am delayed, I write so that you will know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth." 
1Timothy3:16 And by common confession, great is the mystery of godliness: He who was manifested in the flesh, Was vindicated in the Spirit, Seen by angels, Proclaimed among the nations, Believed on in the world, Taken up in glory." 
1Timothy4:1 But the Spirit explicitly says that in later times some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons," 
1Timothy4:2 by the hypocrisy of liars, who have been seared in their own conscience," 
1Timothy4:3 who forbid marriage and advocate abstaining from foods which God created to be shared in with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. 
1Timothy4:4 For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving," 
1Timothy4:5 for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. 
1Timothy4:6 In pointing out these things to the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being nourished on the words of the faith and of the sound doctrine which you have been following." 
1Timothy4:7 But refuse godless myths fit only for old women. On the other hand, train yourself for the purpose of godliness," 
1Timothy4:8 for bodily training is only of little profit, but godliness is profitable for all things, since it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come." 
1Timothy4:9 It is a trustworthy saying and deserving full acceptance. 
1Timothy4:10 For it is for this we labor and strive, because we have fixed our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of believers." 
1Timothy4:11 Command and teach these things. 
1Timothy4:12 Let no one look down on your youthfulness, but show yourself as a model to those who believe in word, conduct, love, faith, and purity." 
1Timothy4:13 Until I come, give attention to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation and teaching." 
1Timothy4:14 Do not neglect the gift within you, which was given to you through prophetic utterance with the laying on of hands by the council of elders." 
1Timothy4:15 Take pains with these things; be absorbed in them, so that your progress will be evident to all." 
1Timothy4:16 Pay close attention to yourself and to your teaching; persevere in these things, for as you do this you will save both yourself and those who hear you." 
1Timothy5:1 Do not sharply rebuke an older man, but rather plead with him as a father, to the younger men as brothers," 
1Timothy5:2 the older women as mothers, and the younger women as sisters, in all purity." 
1Timothy5:3 Honor widows who are widows indeed," 
1Timothy5:4 but if any widow has children or grandchildren, they must first learn to practice piety in regard to their own family and to make some return to their parents; for this is acceptable in the sight of God." 
1Timothy5:5 Now she who is a widow indeed and who has been left alone, has fixed her hope on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day." 
1Timothy5:6 But she who lives in self-indulgence is dead even while she lives. 
1Timothy5:7 And command these things as well, so that they may be above reproach." 
1Timothy5:8 But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever." 
1Timothy5:9 A widow is to be put on the list only if she is not less than sixty years old, having been the wife of one man," 
1Timothy5:10 having a reputation for good works; if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality to strangers, if she has washed the saints’ feet, if she has assisted those in affliction, if she has devoted herself to every good work." 
1Timothy5:11 But refuse to put younger widows on the list, for when they feel sensual desires in disregard of Christ, they want to get married," 
1Timothy5:12 thus incurring condemnation, because they have set aside their previous pledge." 
1Timothy5:13 And at the same time they also learn to be idle, as they go around from house to house. And not merely idle, but also gossips and busybodies, talking about things not proper to mention." 
1Timothy5:14 Therefore, I want younger widows to get married, bear children, keep house, and give the enemy no opportunity for reviling," 
1Timothy5:15 for some have already turned aside after Satan. 
1Timothy5:16 If any believing woman has widows, she must assist them and the church must not be burdened, so that it may assist those who are widows indeed." 
1Timothy5:17 The elders who lead well are to be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor at preaching the word and teaching." 
1Timothy5:18 For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle the ox while it is threshing,” and “The laborer is worthy of his wages.”" 
1Timothy5:19 Do not receive an accusation against an elder except on the basis of two or three witnesses. 
1Timothy5:20 Those who continue in sin, reprove in the presence of all, so that the rest also will be fearful." 
1Timothy5:21 I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of His elect angels, to observe these instructions without bias, doing nothing in partiality." 
1Timothy5:22 Do not lay hands upon anyone hastily and thereby share responsibility for the sins of others; keep yourself pure. 
1Timothy5:23 No longer drink water only, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments." 
1Timothy5:24 The sins of some men are quite evident, going before them to judgment; for others, their sins follow after." 
1Timothy5:25 So also good works are quite evident, and those which are otherwise cannot be concealed." 
1Timothy6:1 All who are under the yoke as slaves are to regard their own masters as worthy of all honor so that the name of God and our doctrine will not be slandered. 
1Timothy6:2 But those who have believers as their masters must not be disrespectful to them because they are brothers, but must serve them all the more, because those who partake of the benefit are believers and beloved. Teach and exhort these things." 
1Timothy6:3 If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with sound words—those of our Lord Jesus Christ—and with the doctrine conforming to godliness," 
1Timothy6:4 he is conceited, understanding nothing but having a morbid interest in controversial questions and disputes about words, out of which arise envy, strife, slander, evil suspicions," 
1Timothy6:5 and constant friction between men of depraved mind and deprived of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain." 
1Timothy6:6 But godliness actually is a means of great gain, when accompanied by contentment." 
1Timothy6:7 For we have brought nothing into the world, so we cannot take anything out of it either." 
1Timothy6:8 And if we have food and covering, with these we shall be content." 
1Timothy6:9 But those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction. 
1Timothy6:10 For the love of money is a root of all sorts of evils, and some by aspiring to it have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs." 
1Timothy6:11 But you, O man of God, flee from these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, perseverance, gentleness." 
1Timothy6:12 Fight the good fight of faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses." 
1Timothy6:13 I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate," 
1Timothy6:14 that you keep the commandment without stain or reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
1Timothy6:15 which He will bring about at the proper time—He who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords," 
1Timothy6:16 who alone has immortality and dwells in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see. To Him be honor and eternal might! Amen." 
1Timothy6:17 Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty or to set their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy." 
1Timothy6:18 Command them to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share," 
1Timothy6:19 storing up for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is life indeed." 
1Timothy6:20 O Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you, turning aside from godless and empty chatter and the opposing arguments of what is falsely called knowledge—" 
1Timothy6:21 which some, while professing, have gone astray from the faith. Grace be with you." 
2Timothy1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life in Christ Jesus," 
2Timothy1:2 To Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord." 
2Timothy1:3 I am grateful to God, whom I serve with a clear conscience the way my forefathers did, as I unceasingly remember you in my prayers night and day," 
2Timothy1:4 longing to see you, having remembered your tears, so that I may be filled with joy," 
2Timothy1:5 being reminded of the unhypocritical faith within you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am convinced that it is in you as well." 
2Timothy1:6 For this reason I remind you to kindle afresh the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. 
2Timothy1:7 For God has not given us a spirit of timidity, but of power and love and self-discipline." 
2Timothy1:8 Therefore do not be ashamed of either the witness about our Lord or me His prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel according to the power of God," 
2Timothy1:9 who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to His own purpose and grace which was given to us in Christ Jesus from all eternity," 
2Timothy1:10 but now has been manifested by the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel," 
2Timothy1:11 for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle and a teacher. 
2Timothy1:12 For this reason I also suffer these things, but I am not ashamed; for I know whom I have believed and I am convinced that He is able to guard what I have entrusted to Him until that day." 
2Timothy1:13 Hold to the standard of sound words which you have heard from me, in the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy1:14 Guard, through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us, the treasure which has been entrusted to you." 
2Timothy1:15 You are aware of this: that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes." 
2Timothy1:16 The Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains," 
2Timothy1:17 but when he was in Rome, he eagerly searched for me and found me—" 
2Timothy1:18 the Lord grant to him to find mercy from the Lord on that day—and you know very well what services he rendered at Ephesus. 
2Timothy2:1 You therefore, my child, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy2:2 And the things which you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also." 
2Timothy2:3 Suffer hardship with me, as a good soldier of Christ Jesus." 
2Timothy2:4 No soldier in active service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life, so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier." 
2Timothy2:5 And also if anyone competes as an athlete, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules." 
2Timothy2:6 The hard-working farmer ought to be the first to receive his share of the crops. 
2Timothy2:7 Understand what I say, for the Lord will give you insight in everything." 
2Timothy2:8 Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel," 
2Timothy2:9 for which I endure hardship even to chains as a criminal. But the word of God has not been chained. 
2Timothy2:10 For this reason I endure all things for the sake of the elect, so that they also may obtain the salvation, which is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory." 
2Timothy2:11 It is a trustworthy saying: For if we died with Him, we will also live with Him;" 
2Timothy2:12 If we endure, we will also reign with Him; If we will deny Him, He also will deny us;" 
2Timothy2:13 If we are faithless, He remains faithful, for He cannot deny Himself." 
2Timothy2:14 Remind them of these things, solemnly charging them in the presence of God not to dispute about words, which is useless and leads to the ruin of the hearers." 
2Timothy2:15 Be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, accurately handling the word of truth." 
2Timothy2:16 But avoid godless and empty chatter, for it will lead to further ungodliness," 
2Timothy2:17 and their word will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus," 
2Timothy2:18 who have gone astray from the truth saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and they upset the faith of some." 
2Timothy2:19 Nevertheless, the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, “The Lord knows those who are His,” and, “Everyone who names the name of the Lord is to depart from wickedness.”" 
2Timothy2:20 Now in a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also vessels of wood and of clay, and some to honor and some to dishonor." 
2Timothy2:21 Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, useful to the Master, having been prepared for every good work." 
2Timothy2:22 Now flee from youthful lusts and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart." 
2Timothy2:23 But refuse foolish and ignorant speculations, knowing that they produce quarrels." 
2Timothy2:24 And the Lord’s slave must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach, patient when wronged," 
2Timothy2:25 with gentleness correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may give them repentance leading to the full knowledge of the truth," 
2Timothy2:26 and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will." 
2Timothy3:1 But know this, that in the last days difficult times will come." 
2Timothy3:2 For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy," 
2Timothy3:3 unloving, irreconcilable, malicious gossips, without self-control, without gentleness, without love for good," 
2Timothy3:4 treacherous, reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God," 
2Timothy3:5 holding to a form of godliness, but having denied its power. Keep away from such men as these." 
2Timothy3:6 For among them are those who enter into households and take captive weak women weighed down with sins, being led on by various desires," 
2Timothy3:7 always learning and never able to come to the full knowledge of the truth. 
2Timothy3:8 Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also oppose the truth, men of depraved mind, disqualified in regard to the faith." 
2Timothy3:9 But they will not make further progress, for their folly will be obvious to all, just as theirs was also." 
2Timothy3:10 But you followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, perseverance," 
2Timothy3:11 persecutions, and sufferings, such as happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra. What persecutions I endured, and out of them all the Lord rescued me!" 
2Timothy3:12 Indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted." 
2Timothy3:13 But evil men and impostors will proceed from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived." 
2Timothy3:14 But you, continue in the things you learned and became convinced of, knowing from whom you learned them," 
2Timothy3:15 and that from childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to make you wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
2Timothy3:16 All Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness," 
2Timothy3:17 so that the man of God may be equipped, having been thoroughly equipped for every good work." 
2Timothy4:1 I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by His appearing and His kingdom:" 
2Timothy4:2 preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with great patience and teaching." 
2Timothy4:3 For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires," 
2Timothy4:4 and will turn away their ears from the truth and will turn aside to myths. 
2Timothy4:5 But you, be sober in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry." 
2Timothy4:6 For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come." 
2Timothy4:7 I have fought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith." 
2Timothy4:8 In the future there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved His appearing." 
2Timothy4:9 Be diligent to come to me soon," 
2Timothy4:10 for Demas, having loved this present age, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica; Crescens has gone to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia." 
2Timothy4:10 for Demas, having loved this present age, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica; Crescens has gone to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me. Pick up Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me. Pick up Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service." 
2Timothy4:11 Only Luke is with me. Pick up Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service." 
2Timothy4:12 But Tychicus I sent to Ephesus. 
2Timothy4:13 When you come bring the cloak which I left at Troas with Carpus, and the scrolls, especially the parchments." 
2Timothy4:14 Alexander the coppersmith showed me much harm; the Lord will award him according to his deeds. 
2Timothy4:15 Be on guard against him yourself, for he vigorously opposed our words." 
2Timothy4:16 At my first defense no one supported me, but all deserted me. May it not be counted against them." 
2Timothy4:17 But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching might be fulfilled, and that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was rescued out of the lion’s mouth." 
2Timothy4:18 The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed, and will save me unto His heavenly kingdom; to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen." 
2Timothy4:19 Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus." 
2Timothy4:20 Erastus remained at Corinth, but Trophimus I left sick at Miletus." 
2Timothy4:21 Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, also Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers." 
2Timothy4:22 The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with all of you. 
Titus1:1 Paul, a slave of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the faith of God’s elect and the full knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness," 
Titus1:2 in the hope of eternal life, which the God who cannot lie promised from all eternity," 
Titus1:3 but at the proper time manifested His word in preaching, with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior," 
Titus1:4 To Titus, my genuine child according to our common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior." 
Titus1:5 For this reason I left you in Crete, that you would set in order what remains and appoint elders in every city as I directed you," 
Titus1:6 namely, if any man is beyond reproach, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, who are not accused of dissipation, or rebellious." 
Titus1:7 For the overseer must be beyond reproach as God’s steward, not self-willed, not quick-tempered, not addicted to wine, not pugnacious, not fond of dishonest gain," 
Titus1:8 but hospitable, loving what is good, sensible, righteous, holy, self-controlled," 
Titus1:9 holding fast the faithful word which is in accordance with the teaching, so that he will be able both to exhort in sound doctrine and to reprove those who contradict." 
Titus1:10 For there are many rebellious men, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision," 
Titus1:11 who must be silenced because they are upsetting whole families, teaching things they should not teach for the sake of dishonest gain." 
Titus1:12 One of themselves, a prophet of their own, said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons.”" 
Titus1:13 This testimony is true. For this reason reprove them severely so that they may be sound in the faith," 
Titus1:14 not paying attention to Jewish myths and commandments of men who turn away from the truth. 
Titus1:15 To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure, but both their mind and their conscience are defiled." 
Titus1:16 They profess to know God, but by their works they deny Him, being detestable and disobedient and unfit for any good work." 
Titus2:1 But as for you, speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine." 
Titus2:2 Older men are to be temperate, dignified, sensible, sound in faith, in love, in perseverance." 
Titus2:3 Older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips nor enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good," 
Titus2:4 so that they may instruct the young women in sensibility: to love their husbands, to love their children," 
Titus2:5 to be sensible, pure, workers at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands, so that the word of God will not be slandered." 
Titus2:6 Likewise urge the younger men to be sensible; 
Titus2:7 in all things show yourself to be a model of good works, with purity in doctrine, dignified," 
Titus2:8 sound in word which is irreproachable, so that the opponent will be put to shame, having nothing bad to say about us." 
Titus2:9 Urge slaves to be subject to their own masters in everything, to be pleasing, not contradicting," 
Titus2:10 not pilfering, but demonstrating all good faith so that they will adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in everything." 
Titus2:11 For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men," 
Titus2:12 instructing us that, denying ungodliness and worldly desires, we should live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age," 
Titus2:13 looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ," 
Titus2:14 who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all lawlessness, and purify for Himself a people for His own possession, zealous for good works." 
Titus2:15 These things speak and exhort and reprove with all authority. Let no one disregard you. 
Titus3:1 Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work," 
Titus3:2 to slander no one, to be peaceable, considerate, demonstrating all gentleness to all men." 
Titus3:3 For we ourselves also once were foolish, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, despicable, hating one another." 
Titus3:4 But when the kindness and affection of God our Savior appeared," 
Titus3:5 He saved us, not by works which we did in righteousness, but according to His mercy, through the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit," 
Titus3:6 whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior," 
Titus3:7 so that having been justified by His grace, we would become heirs according to the hope of eternal life." 
Titus3:8 This is a trustworthy saying. And concerning these things I want you to speak confidently, so that those who have believed God will be intent to lead in good works. These things are good and profitable for men." 
Titus3:9 But avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and conflicts about the Law, for they are unprofitable and worthless." 
Titus3:10 Reject a factious man after a first and second warning," 
Titus3:11 knowing that such a man is perverted and is sinning, being self-condemned." 
Titus3:12 When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there." 
Titus3:13 Diligently help send Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way so that nothing is lacking for them. 
Titus3:14 And our people must also learn to lead in good works to meet pressing needs, so that they will not be unfruitful." 
Titus3:15 All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. 
Philemon1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, To Philemon our beloved brother and fellow worker," 
Philemon1:2 and to Apphia our sister, and to Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house:" 
Philemon1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Philemon1:4 I thank my God, always making mention of you in my prayers," 
Philemon1:5 because I hear of your love and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints; 
Philemon1:6 and I pray that the fellowship of your faith may become effective through the full knowledge of every good thing which is in you for the sake of Christ. 
Philemon1:7 For I have come to have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother." 
Philemon1:8 Therefore, though I have much boldness in Christ to command you to do what is proper," 
Philemon1:9 yet for love’s sake I rather plead with you—since I am such a person as Paul, the aged, and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus—" 
Philemon1:10 I plead with you for my child Onesimus, of whom I became a father in my chains," 
Philemon1:11 who formerly was useless to you, but now is useful both to you and to me." 
Philemon1:12 I have sent him back to you in person, that is, my very heart," 
Philemon1:13 whom I intended to keep with me, so that on your behalf he might minister to me in my chains for the gospel," 
Philemon1:14 but without your consent I did not want to do anything, so that your goodness would not be, in effect, by compulsion but voluntary." 
Philemon1:15 For perhaps he was for this reason separated from you for a while, that you would have him back forever," 
Philemon1:16 no longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord." 
Philemon1:17 If then you regard me a partner, accept him as you would accept me." 
Philemon1:18 But if he has wronged you in any way or owes you anything, charge that to my account." 
Philemon1:19 I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand, I will repay it (not to mention to you that you owe to me even your own self as well)." 
Philemon1:20 Yes, brother, let me benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ!" 
Philemon1:21 Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, since I know that you will do even more than what I say." 
Philemon1:22 And at the same time also prepare me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you." 
Philemon1:23 Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you," 
Philemon1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers." 
Philemon1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers." 
Philemon1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers." 
Philemon1:25 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. 
Hebrews1:1 God, having spoken long ago to the fathers in the prophets in many portions and in many ways," 
Hebrews1:2 in these last days spoke to us in His Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, through whom also He made the worlds," 
Hebrews1:3 who is the radiance of His glory and the exact representation of His nature, and upholds all things by the word of His power; who, having accomplished cleansing for sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high," 
Hebrews1:4 having become so much better than the angels, as He has inherited a more excellent name than they." 
Hebrews1:5 For to which of the angels did He ever say, “You are My Son, Today I have begotten You”? And again, “I will be a Father to Him And He shall be a Son to Me”?" 
Hebrews1:6 And when He again brings the firstborn into the world, He says, “And let all the angels of God worship Him.”" 
Hebrews1:7 And of the angels He says, “Who makes His angels winds, And His ministers flaming fire.”" 
Hebrews1:8 But of the Son He says, “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, And the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom." 
Hebrews1:9 You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of gladness above Your companions.”" 
Hebrews1:10 And, “You, Lord, in the beginning founded the earth, And the heavens are the works of Your hands;" 
Hebrews1:11 They will perish, but You remain; And they all will wear out like a garment," 
Hebrews1:12 And like a mantle You will roll them up; Like a garment they will also be changed. But You are the same, And Your years will not come to an end.”" 
Hebrews1:13 But to which of the angels has He ever said, “Sit at My right hand, Until I put Your enemies As a footstool for Your feet”?" 
Hebrews1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits, sent to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation?" 
Hebrews2:1 For this reason we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away." 
Hebrews2:2 For if the word spoken through angels proved unalterable, and every trespass and disobedience received a just penalty," 
Hebrews2:3 how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? That salvation, first spoken by the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard," 
Hebrews2:4 God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to His own will." 
Hebrews2:5 For He did not subject to angels the world to come, concerning which we are speaking." 
Hebrews2:6 But one has testified somewhere, saying, “What is man, that You remember him? Or the son of man, that You are concerned about him?" 
Hebrews2:7 You have made him for a little while lower than the angels; You have crowned him with glory and honor, And have appointed him over the works of Your hands;" 
Hebrews2:8 You have put all things in subjection under his feet.” For in subjecting all things to him, He left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to him." 
Hebrews2:9 But we do see Him who was made for a little while lower than the angels—Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God He might taste death for everyone." 
Hebrews2:10 For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to perfect the author of their salvation through sufferings." 
Hebrews2:11 For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of One; for which reason He is not ashamed to call them brothers," 
Hebrews2:12 saying, “I will recount Your name to My brothers, In the midst of the assembly I will sing Your praise.”" 
Hebrews2:13 And again, “I will put My trust in Him.” And again, “Behold, I and the children whom God has given Me.”" 
Hebrews2:14 Therefore, since the children share in flesh and blood, He Himself likewise also partook of the same, that through death He might render powerless him who had the power of death, that is, the devil," 
Hebrews2:15 and might free those who through fear of death were subject to slavery all their lives. 
Hebrews2:16 For assuredly He does not give help to angels, but He gives help to the seed of Abraham." 
Hebrews2:17 Therefore, He had to be made like His brothers in all things, so that He might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people." 
Hebrews2:18 For since He Himself was tempted in that which He has suffered, He is able to come to help those who are tempted." 
Hebrews3:1 Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession—Jesus," 
Hebrews3:2 who was faithful to Him who appointed Him, as Moses also was in all His house." 
Hebrews3:3 For He has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, in so much as the builder of the house has more honor than the house." 
Hebrews3:4 For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God." 
Hebrews3:5 Now Moses was faithful in all His house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later," 
Hebrews3:6 but Christ was faithful as a Son over His house—whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the boast of our hope." 
Hebrews3:7 Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says, “Today if you hear His voice," 
Hebrews3:8 Do not harden your hearts as when they provoked Me, As in the day of trial in the wilderness," 
Hebrews3:9 Where your fathers tried Me by testing Me, And saw My works for forty years." 
Hebrews3:10 Therefore I was angry with this generation, And said, ‘They always go astray in their heart, And they did not know My ways’;" 
Hebrews3:11 As I swore in My wrath, ‘They shall not enter My rest.’”" 
Hebrews3:12 See to it brothers, that there not be in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God." 
Hebrews3:13 But encourage one another day after day, as long as it is still called “Today,” so that none of you will be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin." 
Hebrews3:14 For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our assurance firm until the end," 
Hebrews3:15 while it is said, “Today if you hear His voice, Do not harden your hearts, as when they provoked Me.”" 
Hebrews3:16 For who provoked Him when they had heard? Indeed, did not all those who came out of Egypt led by Moses?" 
Hebrews3:17 And with whom was He angry for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose corpses fell in the wilderness?" 
Hebrews3:18 And to whom did He swear that they would not enter His rest, but to those who were disobedient?" 
Hebrews3:19 So we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief. 
Hebrews4:1 Therefore, let us fear, lest, while a promise remains of entering His rest, any one of you may seem to have fallen short of it." 
Hebrews4:2 For indeed we have had good news proclaimed to us, just as they also; but the word that was heard did not profit those who were not united with faith among those who heard." 
Hebrews4:3 For we who have believed enter that rest, just as He has said, “As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter My rest,” although His works were finished from the foundation of the world." 
Hebrews4:4 For He has spoken somewhere in this way concerning the seventh day: “And God rested on the seventh day from all His works”; 
Hebrews4:5 and again in this passage, “They shall not enter My rest.”" 
Hebrews4:6 Therefore, since it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly had good news proclaimed to them failed to enter because of disobedience," 
Hebrews4:7 He again determines a certain day, “Today,” saying through David after so long a time just as has been said before, “Today if you hear His voice, Do not harden your hearts.”" 
Hebrews4:8 For if Joshua had given them rest, He would not have spoken of another day after that." 
Hebrews4:9 So there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. 
Hebrews4:10 For the one who has entered His rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from His." 
Hebrews4:11 Therefore let us be diligent to enter that rest, lest anyone fall into the same example of disobedience." 
Hebrews4:12 For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart." 
Hebrews4:13 And there is no creature hidden from His sight, but all things are uncovered and laid bare to the eyes of Him to whom we have an account to give." 
Hebrews4:14 Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us take hold of our confession." 
Hebrews4:15 For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all things like we are, yet without sin." 
Hebrews4:16 Therefore let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need." 
Hebrews5:1 For every high priest taken from among men is appointed on behalf of men in things pertaining to God, in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins," 
Hebrews5:2 being able to deal gently with the ignorant and misguided, since he himself also is beset with weakness;" 
Hebrews5:3 and because of it, he is obligated, just as for the people, to also offer sacrifices for sins in the same way for himself." 
Hebrews5:4 And no one takes this honor to himself, but receives it when he is called by God, even as Aaron was." 
Hebrews5:5 In this way also Christ did not glorify Himself to become a high priest, but He who said to Him, “You are My Son, Today I have begotten You”;" 
Hebrews5:6 just as He says also in another passage, “You are a priest forever According to the order of Melchizedek.”" 
Hebrews5:7 He, in the days of His flesh, offered up both prayers and supplications with loud crying and tears to the One able to save Him from death, and He was heard because of His reverence." 
Hebrews5:8 Although He was a Son, He learned obedience from the things which He suffered." 
Hebrews5:9 And having been made perfect, He became to all those who obey Him the source of eternal salvation," 
Hebrews5:10 being designated by God as a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek. 
Hebrews5:11 Concerning him we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing." 
Hebrews5:12 For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God, and you have come to need milk and not solid food." 
Hebrews5:13 For everyone who partakes only of milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness, for he is an infant." 
Hebrews5:14 But solid food is for the mature, who because of practice have their senses trained to discern both good and evil." 
Hebrews6:1 Therefore leaving the elementary teaching about the Christ, let us press on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God," 
Hebrews6:2 of teaching about washings and laying on of hands, and the resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment." 
Hebrews6:3 And this we will do, if God permits." 
Hebrews6:4 For in the case of those once having been enlightened and having tasted of the heavenly gift and having become partakers of the Holy Spirit," 
Hebrews6:5 and having tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come," 
Hebrews6:6 and having fallen away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance, since they again crucify to themselves the Son of God and put Him to open shame." 
Hebrews6:7 For ground that drinks the rain which often falls on it and brings forth vegetation useful to those for whose sake it is also tilled, receives a blessing from God;" 
Hebrews6:8 but if it yields thorns and thistles, it is unfit and close to being cursed, and its end is to be burned." 
Hebrews6:9 But we are convinced about you, beloved, of things that are better and that belong to salvation, though we are speaking in this way." 
Hebrews6:10 For God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward His name, in having ministered and continuing to minister to the saints." 
Hebrews6:11 And we desire that each one of you show the same diligence so as to realize the full assurance of hope until the end," 
Hebrews6:12 so that you may not become dull, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises." 
Hebrews6:13 For when God made the promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, He swore by Himself," 
Hebrews6:14 saying, “I will greatly bless you and I will greatly multiply you.”" 
Hebrews6:15 And so, having patiently waited, he obtained the promise." 
Hebrews6:16 For men swear by one greater than themselves, and with them an oath given as confirmation is an end of every dispute." 
Hebrews6:17 In the same way God, desiring even more to show to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His purpose, guaranteed it with an oath," 
Hebrews6:18 so that by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have taken refuge would have strong encouragement to take hold of the hope set before us." 
Hebrews6:19 This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and confirmed and one which enters within the veil," 
Hebrews6:20 where a forerunner has entered for us—Jesus, having become a high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek." 
Hebrews7:1 For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him," 
Hebrews7:2 to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all, was first of all, by the translation of his name, king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace." 
Hebrews7:3 Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, he remains a priest continually." 
Hebrews7:4 Now observe how great this man was to whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth of the spoils." 
Hebrews7:5 And those indeed of the sons of Levi, who receive the priest’s office, have a commandment in the Law to collect a tenth from the people, that is, from their brothers, although these are descended from Abraham." 
Hebrews7:6 But the one whose genealogy is not traced from them had collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises. 
Hebrews7:7 But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater. 
Hebrews7:8 And in this case mortal men receive tithes, but in that case one receives them, of whom it is witnessed that he lives on." 
Hebrews7:9 And, so to speak, through Abraham even Levi, who received tithes, paid tithes," 
Hebrews7:10 for he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him. 
Hebrews7:11 Now if perfection was through the Levitical priesthood (for on the basis of it the people received the Law), what further need was there for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not be designated according to the order of Aaron?" 
Hebrews7:12 For when the priesthood is changed, of necessity there takes place a change of law also." 
Hebrews7:13 For the one concerning whom these things are spoken belongs to another tribe, from which no one has officiated at the altar." 
Hebrews7:14 For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, a tribe with reference to which Moses spoke nothing concerning priests." 
Hebrews7:15 And this is clearer still, if another priest arises according to the likeness of Melchizedek," 
Hebrews7:16 who has become such not according to a law of physical requirement, but according to the power of an indestructible life." 
Hebrews7:17 For it is witnessed about Him, “You are a priest forever According to the order of Melchizedek.”" 
Hebrews7:18 For, on the one hand, there is a setting aside of a former commandment because of its weakness and uselessness" 
Hebrews7:19 (for the Law made nothing perfect), and on the other hand there is a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near to God." 
Hebrews7:20 And inasmuch as it was not without an oath 
Hebrews7:21 (for they indeed became priests without an oath, but He with an oath through the One who said to Him, “The Lord has sworn And will not change His mind, ‘You are a priest forever’”);" 
Hebrews7:22 so much more Jesus also has become the guarantee of a better covenant. 
Hebrews7:23 And the former priests, on the one hand, existed in greater numbers because they were prevented by death from continuing," 
Hebrews7:24 but Jesus, on the other hand, because He continues forever, holds His priesthood permanently." 
Hebrews7:25 Therefore He is able also to save forever those who draw near to God through Him, since He always lives to make intercession for them." 
Hebrews7:26 For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners and exalted above the heavens;" 
Hebrews7:27 who does not need daily, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for His own sins and then for the sins of the people, because this He did once for all when He offered up Himself." 
Hebrews7:28 For the Law appoints men as high priests who are weak, but the word of the oath, which came after the Law, appoints a Son, who has been made perfect forever." 
Hebrews8:1 Now the main point in what is being said is this: we have such a high priest, who sat down at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens," 
Hebrews8:2 a minister in the holy places and in the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man." 
Hebrews8:3 For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices; so it is necessary that this high priest also have something to offer. 
Hebrews8:4 Now if He were on earth, He would not be a priest at all, since there are those who offer the gifts according to the Law;" 
Hebrews8:5 who serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, just as Moses was warned by God when he was about to erect the tabernacle; for, “See,” He says, “that you make all things according to the pattern which was shown you on the mountain.”" 
Hebrews8:6 But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry, by as much as He is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises." 
Hebrews8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion sought for a second." 
Hebrews8:8 For finding fault with them, He says, “Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, When I will complete a new covenant With the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;" 
Hebrews8:9 Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers In the day when I took them by the hand To lead them out of the land of Egypt; For they did not continue in My covenant, And I did not care for them, says the Lord." 
Hebrews8:10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel After those days, says the Lord: I will put My laws into their minds, And upon their hearts I will write them. And I will be their God, And they shall be My people." 
Hebrews8:11 And they shall not teach everyone his fellow citizen, And everyone his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ For all will know Me, From the least to the greatest of them." 
Hebrews8:12 For I will be merciful to their iniquities, And I will remember their sins no more.”" 
Hebrews8:13 When He said, “A new covenant,” He has made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to disappear." 
Hebrews9:1 Now even the first covenant had requirements of divine worship and the earthly sanctuary. 
Hebrews9:2 For there was a tabernacle prepared: the first part, in which were the lampstand and the table and the sacred bread, which is called the holy place." 
Hebrews9:3 And behind the second veil there was a tabernacle which is called the Holy of Holies," 
Hebrews9:4 having a golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden jar holding the manna, and Aaron’s rod which budded, and the tablets of the covenant." 
Hebrews9:5 And above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail. 
Hebrews9:6 Now when these things have been so prepared, the priests are continually entering the first part of the tabernacle performing the divine worship," 
Hebrews9:7 but into the second, only the high priest enters once a year, not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of the people committed in ignorance." 
Hebrews9:8 The Holy Spirit is indicating this, that the way into the holy places has not yet been manifested while that first part of the tabernacle is still standing," 
Hebrews9:9 which is a symbol for the present time. Accordingly both gifts and sacrifices are offered which cannot make the worshiper perfect in conscience," 
Hebrews9:10 since they relate only to food and drink and various washings, requirements for the body imposed until a time of reformation." 
Hebrews9:11 But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things to come, He entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation," 
Hebrews9:12 and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through His own blood, He entered the holy places once for all, having obtained eternal redemption." 
Hebrews9:13 For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who have been defiled sanctify for the cleansing of the flesh," 
Hebrews9:14 how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?" 
Hebrews9:15 And for this reason He is the mediator of a new covenant, so that, since a death has taken place for the redemption of the trespasses that were committed under the first covenant, those who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance." 
Hebrews9:16 For where a covenant is, there must of necessity be the death of the one who made it." 
Hebrews9:17 For a covenant is valid only when men are dead, for it is never in force while the one who made it lives." 
Hebrews9:18 Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. 
Hebrews9:19 For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the Law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people," 
Hebrews9:20 saying, “This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you.”" 
Hebrews9:21 And in the same way, both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry he sprinkled with the blood." 
Hebrews9:22 And according to the Law, one may almost say, all things are cleansed with blood, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness." 
Hebrews9:23 Therefore it was necessary for the copies of the things in the heavens to be cleansed with these, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these." 
Hebrews9:24 For Christ did not enter holy places made with hands, mere copies of the true ones, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;" 
Hebrews9:25 nor was it that He would offer Himself often, as the high priest enters the holy places year by year with blood that is not his own." 
Hebrews9:26 Otherwise, He would have needed to suffer often since the foundation of the world; but now once at the consummation of the ages He has been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself." 
Hebrews9:27 And inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once and after this comes judgment," 
Hebrews9:28 so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time for salvation without reference to sin, to those who eagerly await Him." 
Hebrews10:1 For the Law, since it has only a shadow of the good things to come and not the very form of things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually year by year, make perfect those who draw near." 
Hebrews10:2 Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, because the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have consciousness of sins?" 
Hebrews10:3 But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year by year. 
Hebrews10:4 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. 
Hebrews10:5 Therefore, when He comes into the world, He says, “Sacrifice and offering You have not desired, But a body You have prepared for Me;" 
Hebrews10:6 In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You have taken no pleasure. 
Hebrews10:7 Then I said, ‘Behold, I have come, In the scroll of the book it is written of Me, To do Your will, O God.’”" 
Hebrews10:8 After saying above, “Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You have not desired, nor have You taken pleasure in them” (which are offered according to the Law)," 
Hebrews10:9 then He said, “Behold, I have come to do Your will.” He takes away the first in order to establish the second." 
Hebrews10:10 By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 
Hebrews10:11 And every priest stands daily ministering and offering time after time the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins;" 
Hebrews10:12 but He, having offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God," 
Hebrews10:13 waiting from that time until His enemies are put as a footstool for His feet. 
Hebrews10:14 For by one offering He has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. 
Hebrews10:15 And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying," 
Hebrews10:16 “This is the covenant that I will make with them After those days, says the Lord: I will put My laws upon their heart, And on their mind I will write them,” He then says," 
Hebrews10:17 “And their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more.” 
Hebrews10:18 Now where there is forgiveness of these things, there is no longer any offering for sin." 
Hebrews10:19 Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus," 
Hebrews10:20 by a new and living way which He inaugurated for us through the veil, that is, His flesh," 
Hebrews10:21 and since we have a great priest over the house of God," 
Hebrews10:22 let us draw near with a sincere heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water." 
Hebrews10:23 Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for He who promised is faithful." 
Hebrews10:24 And let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds," 
Hebrews10:25 not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near." 
Hebrews10:26 For if we go on sinning willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins," 
Hebrews10:27 but a terrifying expectation of judgment and the fury of a fire which will consume the adversaries. 
Hebrews10:28 Anyone who has set aside the Law of Moses dies without mercy by the mouth of two or three witnesses. 
Hebrews10:29 How much worse punishment do you think he will deserve who has trampled underfoot the Son of God, and has regarded as defiled the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has insulted the Spirit of grace?" 
Hebrews10:30 For we know Him who said, “Vengeance is Mine, I will repay.” And again, “The Lord will judge His people.”" 
Hebrews10:31 It is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. 
Hebrews10:32 But remember the former days, when, after being enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings," 
Hebrews10:33 partly by being made a public spectacle through reproaches and afflictions, and partly by becoming sharers with those who were so treated." 
Hebrews10:34 For you also showed sympathy to the prisoners and accepted with joy the seizure of your possessions, knowing that you have for yourselves a better and lasting possession." 
Hebrews10:35 Therefore, do not throw away that confidence of yours, which has a great reward." 
Hebrews10:36 For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God, you may receive the promise." 
Hebrews10:37 For yet in a very little while, He who is coming will come, and will not delay." 
Hebrews10:38 But My righteous one shall live by faith, And if he shrinks back, My soul has no pleasure in him." 
Hebrews10:39 But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the preserving of the soul." 
Hebrews11:1 Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen." 
Hebrews11:2 For by it the men of old gained approval. 
Hebrews11:3 By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things which are visible." 
Hebrews11:4 By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, through which he was approved as being righteous—God approving his gifts—and through faith, though he is dead, he still speaks." 
Hebrews11:5 By faith Enoch was taken up so that he would not see death; and he was not found because God took him up; for prior to being taken up, he was approved as being pleasing to God." 
Hebrews11:6 And without faith it is impossible to please Him, for he who draws near to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who seek Him." 
Hebrews11:7 By faith Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, in reverence prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, by which he condemned the world, and became an heir of the righteousness which is according to faith." 
Hebrews11:8 By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing where he was going." 
Hebrews11:9 By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, fellow heirs of the same promise," 
Hebrews11:10 for he was looking for the city which has foundations, whose architect and builder is God." 
Hebrews11:11 By faith even Sarah herself received ability to conceive, even beyond the proper time of life, since she regarded Him faithful who had promised." 
Hebrews11:12 Therefore there were born even of one man, and him as good as dead at that, as many as the stars of heaven in number, and innumerable as the sand which is by the seashore." 
Hebrews11:13 All these died in faith, without receiving the promises, but having seen them and having welcomed them from a distance, and having confessed that they were strangers and exiles on the earth." 
Hebrews11:14 For those who say such things make it clear that they are seeking a country of their own. 
Hebrews11:15 And indeed if they had been remembering that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return." 
Hebrews11:16 But now, they aspire to a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He prepared a city for them." 
Hebrews11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only son," 
Hebrews11:18 to whom it was said, “In Isaac your seed shall be called.”" 
Hebrews11:19 He considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he also received him back." 
Hebrews11:20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even regarding things to come." 
Hebrews11:21 By faith Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff." 
Hebrews11:22 By faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the exodus of the sons of Israel, and gave commands concerning his bones." 
Hebrews11:23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king’s edict." 
Hebrews11:24 By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter," 
Hebrews11:25 choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin," 
Hebrews11:26 regarding the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he was looking to the reward. 
Hebrews11:27 By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the rage of the king; for he endured, as seeing Him who is unseen." 
Hebrews11:28 By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, so that he who destroyed the firstborn would not touch them." 
Hebrews11:29 By faith they passed through the Red Sea as though they were passing through dry land, and the Egyptians, when they attempted it, were drowned." 
Hebrews11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days. 
Hebrews11:31 By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with those who were disobedient, after welcoming the spies in peace." 
Hebrews11:32 And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I recount Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, as well as David and Samuel and the prophets," 
Hebrews11:33 who through faith conquered kingdoms, performed righteousness, obtained promises, shut the mouths of lions," 
Hebrews11:34 quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong from weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight." 
Hebrews11:35 Women received back their dead by resurrection; and others were tortured, not accepting their release, so that they might obtain a better resurrection;" 
Hebrews11:36 and others experienced mockings and floggings, yes, also chains and imprisonment." 
Hebrews11:37 They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, they were put to death with the sword. They went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, mistreated" 
Hebrews11:38 (of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in desolate places and mountains and caves and holes in the ground." 
Hebrews11:39 And all these, having gained approval through their faith, did not receive what was promised," 
Hebrews11:40 because God had provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect." 
Hebrews12:1 Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, laying aside every weight and the sin which so easily entangles us, let us run with endurance the race that is set before us," 
Hebrews12:2 fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God." 
Hebrews12:3 For consider Him who has endured such hostility by sinners against Himself, so that you will not grow weary, fainting in heart." 
Hebrews12:4 You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood in your striving against sin. 
Hebrews12:5 And you have forgotten the exhortation which is addressed to you as sons, “My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, Nor faint when you are reproved by Him;" 
Hebrews12:6 For those whom the Lord loves He disciplines, And He flogs every son whom He receives.”" 
Hebrews12:7 It is for discipline that you endure; God deals with you as with sons; for what son is there whom his father does not discipline? 
Hebrews12:8 But if you are without discipline, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate children and not sons." 
Hebrews12:9 Furthermore, we had earthly fathers to discipline us, and we respected them. Shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of spirits, and live?" 
Hebrews12:10 For they disciplined us for a short time as seemed best to them, but He disciplines us for our benefit, so that we may share His holiness." 
Hebrews12:11 And all discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful, but sorrowful, but to those who have been trained by it, afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness." 
Hebrews12:12 Therefore, strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble," 
Hebrews12:13 and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed." 
Hebrews12:14 Pursue peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord," 
Hebrews12:15 seeing to it that no one falls short of the grace of God; that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and by it many be defiled;" 
Hebrews12:16 that also there be no sexually immoral or godless person like Esau, who sold his own birthright for a single meal." 
Hebrews12:17 For you know that even afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance, though he sought for it with tears." 
Hebrews12:18 For you have not come to a mountain that can be touched and to a blazing fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind," 
Hebrews12:19 and to the blast of a trumpet and the sound of words which was such that those who heard begged that no further word be spoken to them. 
Hebrews12:20 For they could not bear what was being commanded, “If even a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned.”" 
Hebrews12:21 And so terrible was what appeared, that Moses said, “I am full of fear and trembling.”" 
Hebrews12:22 But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels," 
Hebrews12:23 to the festal gathering and assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect," 
Hebrews12:24 and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood, which speaks better than the blood of Abel." 
Hebrews12:25 See to it that you do not refuse Him who is speaking. For if those did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape who turn away from Him who warns from heaven." 
Hebrews12:26 And His voice shook the earth then, but now He has promised, saying, “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.”" 
Hebrews12:27 Now this expression, “Yet once more,” indicates the removing of those things which can be shaken, as of created things, so that those things which cannot be shaken may remain." 
Hebrews12:28 Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe;" 
Hebrews12:29 for our God is a consuming fire. 
Hebrews13:1 Let love of the brothers continue. 
Hebrews13:2 Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it." 
Hebrews13:3 Remember the prisoners, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you yourselves also are in the body." 
Hebrews13:4 Marriage is to be held in honor among all, and the marriage bed is to be undefiled, for the sexually immoral and adulterers God will judge." 
Hebrews13:5 Make sure that your way of life is free from the love of money, being content with what you have; for He Himself has said, “I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you,”" 
Hebrews13:6 so that we confidently say, “The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What will man do to me?”" 
Hebrews13:7 Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you; and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith." 
Hebrews13:8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. 
Hebrews13:9 Do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings; for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited." 
Hebrews13:10 We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no authority to eat. 
Hebrews13:11 For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as an offering for sin, are burned outside the camp." 
Hebrews13:12 Therefore Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate." 
Hebrews13:13 So, let us go out to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach." 
Hebrews13:14 For here we do not have a lasting city, but we are seeking the one to come." 
Hebrews13:15 Through Him then, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that confess His name." 
Hebrews13:16 And do not neglect doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is pleased." 
Hebrews13:17 Obey your leaders and submit to them—for they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account—so that they will do this with joy and not with groaning, for this would be unprofitable for you." 
Hebrews13:18 Pray for us, for we are convinced that we have a good conscience, desiring to conduct ourselves well in all things." 
Hebrews13:19 And I urge you all the more to do this, so that I may be restored to you the sooner." 
Hebrews13:20 Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great Shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the eternal covenant, our Lord Jesus," 
Hebrews13:21 equip you in every good thing to do His will, by doing in us what is pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen." 
Hebrews13:22 But I urge you, brothers, bear with this word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly." 
Hebrews13:23 Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you." 
Hebrews13:24 Greet all of your leaders and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. 
Hebrews13:25 Grace be with you all. 
James1:1 James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes who are in the Dispersion: Greetings." 
James1:2 Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you encounter various trials," 
James1:3 knowing that the testing of your faith brings about perseverance. 
James1:4 And let perseverance have its perfect work, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing." 
James1:5 But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all generously and without reproach, and it will be given to him." 
James1:6 But he must ask in faith, doubting nothing, for the one who doubts is like the surf of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind." 
James1:7 For that man ought not to expect that he will receive anything from the Lord," 
James1:8 being a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways." 
James1:9 But the brother of humble circumstances is to boast in his high position; 
James1:10 and the rich man is to boast in his humiliation, because like flowering grass he will pass away." 
James1:11 For the sun rises with a scorching heat and withers the grass; and its flower falls off and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed; so too the rich man in the midst of his pursuits will fade away. 
James1:12 Blessed is a man who perseveres under trial; for once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to those who love Him." 
James1:13 Let no one say when he is tempted, “I am being tempted by God”; for God cannot be tempted by evil, and He Himself does not tempt anyone." 
James1:14 But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. 
James1:15 Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is fully matured, it brings forth death." 
James1:16 Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers." 
James1:17 Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow." 
James1:18 In the exercise of His will He brought us forth by the word of truth, so that we would be a kind of first fruits among His creatures." 
James1:19 Know this, my beloved brothers. But everyone must be quick to hear, slow to speak and slow to anger;" 
James1:20 for the anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. 
James1:21 Therefore, laying aside all filthiness and all that remains of wickedness, in gentleness receive the implanted word, which is able to save your souls." 
James1:22 But become doers of the word, and not merely hearers who delude themselves." 
James1:23 For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror;" 
James1:24 for once he looked at himself and has gone away, he immediately forgot what kind of person he was." 
James1:25 But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of freedom, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does." 
James1:26 If anyone thinks himself to be religious while not bridling his tongue but deceiving his own heart, this man’s religion is worthless." 
James1:27 Pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained by the world." 
James2:1 My brothers, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism." 
James2:2 For if a man comes into your assembly with a gold ring and dressed in bright clothes, and there also comes in a poor man in dirty clothes," 
James2:3 and you pay special attention to the one who is wearing the bright clothes, and say, “You sit here in a good place,” and you say to the poor man, “You stand over there, or sit down by my footstool,”" 
James2:4 have you not made distinctions among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts?" 
James2:5 Listen, my beloved brothers: did not God choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He promised to those who love Him?" 
James2:6 But you have dishonored the poor man. Is it not the rich who oppress you and they themselves drag you into court? 
James2:7 Do they not blaspheme the good name by which you have been called? 
James2:8 If, however, you are fulfilling the royal law according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” you are doing well." 
James2:9 But if you show partiality, you are committing sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors." 
James2:10 For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all." 
James2:11 For He who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not murder.” Now if you do not commit adultery, but murder, you have become a transgressor of the law." 
James2:12 So speak and so act as those who are to be judged by the law of freedom. 
James2:13 For judgment will be merciless to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. 
James2:14 What use is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but he has no works? Can that faith save him?" 
James2:15 If a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food," 
James2:16 and one of you says to them, “Go in peace, be warmed and be filled,” and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what use is that?" 
James2:17 Even so faith, if it has no works, is dead by itself." 
James2:18 But someone will say, “You have faith; and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works.”" 
James2:19 You believe that God is one. You do well; the demons also believe, and shudder." 
James2:20 But are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless?" 
James2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac his son on the altar? 
James2:22 You see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected." 
James2:23 And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness,” and he was called the friend of God." 
James2:24 You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. 
James2:25 And in the same way, was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way?" 
James2:26 For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead." 
James3:1 Do not, many of you, become teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive a stricter judgment." 
James3:2 For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to bridle the entire body as well." 
James3:3 Now if we put the bits into the horses’ mouths so that they will obey us, we direct their entire body as well." 
James3:4 Look at the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by strong winds, they are still directed by a very small rudder wherever the inclination of the pilot wills." 
James3:5 So also the tongue is a small part of the body, and yet it boasts of great things. Behold how great a forest is set aflame by such a small fire!" 
James3:6 And the tongue is a fire, the very world of unrighteousness; the tongue is set among our members as that which defiles the entire body, and sets on fire the course of our existence, and is set on fire by hell." 
James3:7 For every kind of beasts and birds, of reptiles and creatures of the sea, is tamed and has been tamed by mankind." 
James3:8 But no one can tame the tongue; it is a restless evil and full of deadly poison. 
James3:9 With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made in the likeness of God." 
James3:10 From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so." 
James3:11 Does a fountain pour forth from the same opening fresh and bitter water? 
James3:12 Can a fig tree, my brothers, produce olives, or a vine produce figs? Nor can saltwater produce fresh." 
James3:13 Who among you is wise and understanding? Let him show by his good conduct his works in the gentleness of wisdom. 
James3:14 But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant and so lie against the truth." 
James3:15 This wisdom is not coming down from above, but is earthly, natural, demonic." 
James3:16 For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there is disorder and every evil practice." 
James3:17 But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruits, without doubting, without hypocrisy." 
James3:18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. 
James4:1 What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? 
James4:2 You lust and do not have, so you murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask." 
James4:3 You ask and do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures." 
James4:4 You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world sets himself as an enemy of God." 
James4:5 Or do you think that the Scripture speaks to no purpose: “He jealously desires the Spirit which He has made to dwell in us”? 
James4:6 But He gives a greater grace. Therefore it says, “God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”" 
James4:7 Be subject therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. 
James4:8 Draw near to God and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded." 
James4:9 Be miserable and mourn and cry. Let your laughter be turned into mourning and your joy to gloom. 
James4:10 Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and He will exalt you." 
James4:11 Do not slander one another, brothers. He who slanders a brother or judges his brother, slanders the law and judges the law; but if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge of it." 
James4:12 There is only one Lawgiver and Judge, the One who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you who judge your neighbor?" 
James4:13 Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city, and spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit.”" 
James4:14 Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You are a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. 
James4:15 Instead, you ought to say, “If the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or that.”" 
James4:16 But as it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil." 
James4:17 Therefore, to one who knows to do the right thing and does not do it, to him it is sin." 
James5:1 Come now, you rich, cry, howling over your miseries which are coming upon you." 
James5:2 Your riches have rotted and your garments have become moth-eaten. 
James5:3 Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their corrosion will be a witness against you and will consume your flesh like fire. You have stored up such treasure in the last days!" 
James5:4 Behold, the pay of the laborers who mowed your fields—that which has been withheld by you—cries out against you; and the outcries of those who did the harvesting have reached the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth." 
James5:5 You have lived luxuriously on the earth and lived in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. 
James5:6 You have condemned and murdered the righteous man; he does not resist you. 
James5:7 Therefore be patient, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the soil, being patient about it, until it receives the early and late rains." 
James5:8 You too be patient; strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand." 
James5:9 Do not groan, brothers, against one another, so that you yourselves may not be judged. Behold, the Judge is standing right at the door." 
James5:10 As an example, brothers, of suffering and patience, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord." 
James5:11 Behold, we count those blessed who persevere. You have heard of the perseverance of Job and have seen the outcome of the Lord’s dealings, that the Lord is full of compassion and is merciful." 
James5:12 But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or with any other oath. But let your yes be yes, and your no, no, so that you may not fall under judgment." 
James5:13 Is anyone among you suffering? Then he must pray. Is anyone cheerful? He is to sing praises. 
James5:14 Is anyone among you sick? Then he must call for the elders of the church and they are to pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord." 
James5:15 And the prayer offered in faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins, they will be forgiven him." 
James5:16 Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another so that you may be healed. The effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much." 
James5:17 Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months." 
James5:18 Then he prayed again, and the sky gave rain and the earth produced its fruit." 
James5:19 My brothers, if any among you strays from the truth and one turns him back," 
James5:20 let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. 
1Peter1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who reside as exiles, scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, who are chosen" 
1Peter1:2 according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, by the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to the obedience of Jesus Christ and the sprinkling of His blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you." 
1Peter1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead," 
1Peter1:4 to obtain an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and unfading, having been kept in heaven for you," 
1Peter1:5 who are protected by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 
1Peter1:6 In this you greatly rejoice, even though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials," 
1Peter1:7 so that the proof of your faith, being more precious than gold which is perishable, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ." 
1Peter1:8 And though you have not seen Him, you love Him, and though you do not see Him now, but believe in Him, you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory," 
1Peter1:9 receiving as the outcome of your faith the salvation of your souls. 
1Peter1:10 Concerning this salvation, the prophets, who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, made careful searches and inquiries," 
1Peter1:11 inquiring to know what time or what kind of time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as He was predicting the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow. 
1Peter1:12 It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you, in these things which now have been declared to you through those who proclaimed the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven—things into which angels long to look." 
1Peter1:13 Therefore, having girded your minds for action, being sober in spirit, fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ." 
1Peter1:14 As obedient children, not being conformed to the former lusts which were yours in your ignorance," 
1Peter1:15 but like the Holy One who called you, be holy yourselves also in all your conduct;" 
1Peter1:16 because it is written, “You shall be holy, for I am holy.”" 
1Peter1:17 And if you address as Father the One who impartially judges according to each one’s work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your sojourn," 
1Peter1:18 knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from your futile conduct inherited from your forefathers," 
1Peter1:19 but with precious blood, as of a lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ." 
1Peter1:20 He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but appeared in these last times for the sake of you" 
1Peter1:21 who through Him are believers in God, who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God." 
1Peter1:22 Since you have in obedience to the truth purified your souls for a love of the brothers without hypocrisy, fervently love one another from the heart," 
1Peter1:23 for you have been born again not of corruptible seed but incorruptible, that is, through the living and enduring word of God." 
1Peter1:24 For, “All flesh is like grass, And all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, And the flower falls off," 
1Peter1:25 But the word of the Lord endures forever.” And this is the word which was proclaimed to you as good news. 
1Peter2:1 Therefore, laying aside all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander," 
1Peter2:2 like newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the word, so that by it you may grow in respect to salvation," 
1Peter2:3 if you have tasted the kindness of the Lord. 
1Peter2:4 And coming to Him as to a living stone which has been rejected by men, but is choice and precious in the sight of God," 
1Peter2:5 you also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ." 
1Peter2:6 For this is contained in Scripture: “Behold, I lay in Zion a choice stone, a precious corner stone, And he who believes upon Him will not be put to shame.”" 
1Peter2:7 This precious value, then, is for you who believe; but for those who disbelieve, “The stone which the builders rejected, This became the chief corner stone,”" 
1Peter2:8 and, “A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense.” They stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and to this stumbling they were also appointed." 
1Peter2:9 But you are a chosen family, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God’s own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light;" 
1Peter2:10 for you once were not a people, but now you are the people of God; you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy." 
1Peter2:11 Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from fleshly lusts which wage war against the soul," 
1Peter2:12 by keeping your conduct excellent among the Gentiles, so that in the thing which they slander you as evildoers, they may because of your good works, as they observe them, glorify God in the day of visitation." 
1Peter2:13 Be subject for the sake of the Lord to every human institution, whether to a king as the one in authority," 
1Peter2:14 or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do good. 
1Peter2:15 For such is the will of God that by doing good you may silence the ignorance of foolish men. 
1Peter2:16 Act as free people, and do not use your freedom as a covering for evil, but use it as slaves of God." 
1Peter2:17 Honor all people, love the brethren, fear God, honor the king." 
1Peter2:18 Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to those who are good and considerate, but also to those who are crooked." 
1Peter2:19 For this finds favor, if for the sake of conscience toward God a person bears up under sorrows when suffering unrighteously." 
1Peter2:20 For what credit is there if, when you sin and are harshly treated, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure, this finds favor with God." 
1Peter2:21 For to this you have been called, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in His steps," 
1Peter2:22 who did no sin, nor was any deceit found in His mouth;" 
1Peter2:23 who being reviled, was not reviling in return; while suffering, He was uttering no threats, but kept entrusting Himself to Him who judges righteously." 
1Peter2:24 Who Himself bore our sins in His body on the tree, so that having died to sin, we might live to righteousness; by His wounds you were healed." 
1Peter2:25 For you were continually straying like sheep, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls." 
1Peter3:1 In the same way, you wives, be subject to your own husbands so that even if any of them are disobedient to the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives," 
1Peter3:2 as they observe your pure conduct with fear. 
1Peter3:3 Your adornment must not be merely external—braiding the hair, and wearing gold jewelry, or putting on garments;" 
1Peter3:4 but let it be the hidden person of the heart, with the incorruptible quality of a lowly and quiet spirit, which is precious in the sight of God." 
1Peter3:5 For in this way in former times the holy women also, who hoped in God, used to adorn themselves, being subject to their own husbands," 
1Peter3:6 just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. You have become her children if you do good, not fearing any intimidation." 
1Peter3:7 You husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way, as with a weaker vessel, since she is a woman; and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered." 
1Peter3:8 Now to sum up, all of you be like-minded, sympathetic, brotherly, tender-hearted, and humble in spirit;" 
1Peter3:9 not returning evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but giving a blessing instead, for you were called for the very purpose that you might inherit a blessing." 
1Peter3:10 For, “The one who desires life, to love and see good days, Must keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit." 
1Peter3:11 He must turn away from evil and do good; He must seek peace and pursue it. 
1Peter3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous, And His ears attend to their prayer, But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”" 
1Peter3:13 And who is there to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good? 
1Peter3:14 But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not fear their fear, and do not be troubled," 
1Peter3:15 but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and fear," 
1Peter3:16 having a good conscience so that in the thing in which you are slandered, those who disparage your good conduct in Christ will be put to shame." 
1Peter3:17 For it is better, if God should will it so, that you suffer for doing good rather than for doing wrong." 
1Peter3:18 For Christ also suffered for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, so that He might bring you to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit;" 
1Peter3:19 in which also He went and made proclamation to the spirits now in prison," 
1Peter3:20 who once were disobedient, when the patience of God kept waiting in the days of Noah, during the construction of the ark, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through the water." 
1Peter3:21 Corresponding to that, baptism now saves you—not the removal of dirt from the flesh, but an appeal of a good conscience to God—through the resurrection of Jesus Christ," 
1Peter3:22 who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, after angels and authorities and powers had been subjected to Him." 
1Peter4:1 Therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same purpose—because he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin—" 
1Peter4:2 so as to no longer live the rest of the time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but for the will of God." 
1Peter4:3 For the time already past is sufficient for you to have worked out the desire of the Gentiles, having pursued a course of sensuality, lusts, drunkenness, carousing, drinking parties, and abominable idolatries." 
1Peter4:4 In all this, they are surprised that you do not run with them into the same excesses of dissipation, maligning you," 
1Peter4:5 but they will give account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. 
1Peter4:6 For to this the gospel has been proclaimed even to those who are now dead, so that though they were judged in the flesh as men, they live in the spirit according to the will of God." 
1Peter4:7 The end of all things is at hand; therefore, be of sound thinking and sober spirit for the purpose of prayer." 
1Peter4:8 Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another, because love covers a multitude of sins." 
1Peter4:9 Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. 
1Peter4:10 As each one has received a gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God—" 
1Peter4:11 whoever speaks, as one speaking the oracles of God; whoever serves, as one serving by the strength which God supplies; so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belongs the glory and might forever and ever. Amen." 
1Peter4:12 Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial among you, which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening to you." 
1Peter4:13 But to the degree you are sharing the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of His glory you may rejoice with exultation." 
1Peter4:14 If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you." 
1Peter4:15 Make sure that none of you suffers as a murderer, or thief, or evildoer, or a troublesome meddler;" 
1Peter4:16 but if anyone suffers as a Christian, he is not to be put to shame, but is to glorify God in this name." 
1Peter4:17 For it is time for judgment to begin with the house of God; and if it begins with us first, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God?" 
1Peter4:18 And if it is with difficulty that the righteous is saved, what will become of the godless man and the sinner?" 
1Peter4:19 Therefore, those also who suffer according to the will of God must entrust their souls to a faithful Creator in doing good." 
1Peter5:1 Therefore, I exhort the elders among you, as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed," 
1Peter5:2 shepherd the flock of God among you, overseeing not under compulsion, but willingly, according to God; and not for dishonest gain, but with eagerness;" 
1Peter5:3 nor yet as lording it over those allotted to you, but being examples to the flock." 
1Peter5:4 And when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory." 
1Peter5:5 You younger men, likewise, be subject to your elders. And all of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, for God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble." 
1Peter5:6 Therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you at the proper time," 
1Peter5:7 casting all your anxiety on Him, because He cares for you." 
1Peter5:8 Be of sober spirit, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour." 
1Peter5:9 But resist him, firm in the faith, knowing that the same experiences of suffering are being accomplished among your brethren who are in the world." 
1Peter5:10 And after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace, who called you to His eternal glory in Christ, will Himself restore, strengthen, confirm, and ground you." 
1Peter5:11 To Him be might forever and ever. Amen. 
1Peter5:12 Through Silvanus, our faithful brother as I regard him, I have written to you briefly, exhorting and bearing witness that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it!" 
1Peter5:13 She who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, sends you greetings, and so does my son, Mark." 
1Peter5:13 She who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, sends you greetings, and so does my son, Mark." 
1Peter5:14 Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace be to you all who are in Christ. 
2Peter1:1 Simeon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have received the same kind of faith as ours, by the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ:" 
2Peter1:2 Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the full knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord; 
2Peter1:3 seeing that His divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness, through the full knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence." 
2Peter1:4 For by these He has granted to us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust." 
2Peter1:5 Now for this very reason also, applying all diligence, in your faith supply moral excellence, and in your moral excellence, knowledge," 
2Peter1:6 and in your knowledge, self-control, and in your self-control, perseverance, and in your perseverance, godliness," 
2Peter1:7 and in your godliness, brotherly kindness, and in your brotherly kindness, love." 
2Peter1:8 For if these things are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the full knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." 
2Peter1:9 For in whom these things are not present, that one is blind, being nearsighted, having forgotten the purification from his former sins." 
2Peter1:10 Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and choosing sure; for in doing these things, you will never stumble;" 
2Peter1:11 for in this way the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be abundantly supplied to you. 
2Peter1:12 Therefore, I will always be ready to remind you of these things, even though you already know them, and have been strengthened in the truth which is present with you." 
2Peter1:13 I consider it right, as long as I am in this earthly dwelling, to stir you up by way of reminder," 
2Peter1:14 knowing that the laying aside of my earthly dwelling is imminent, as also our Lord Jesus Christ has indicated to me." 
2Peter1:15 And I will also be diligent that at any time after my departure you will be able to call these things to mind. 
2Peter1:16 For we did not make known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, following cleverly devised myths, but being eyewitnesses of His majesty." 
2Peter1:17 For when He received honor and glory from God the Father, such an utterance as this was made to Him by the Majestic Glory, “This is My beloved Son with whom I am well-pleased”—" 
2Peter1:18 and we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven when we were with Him on the holy mountain. 
2Peter1:19 And we have as more sure the prophetic word, to which you do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts." 
2Peter1:20 Know this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes by one’s own interpretation." 
2Peter1:21 For no prophecy was ever made by the will of man, but men being moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God." 
2Peter2:1 But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you, who will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves." 
2Peter2:2 And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of the truth will be maligned." 
2Peter2:3 And in their greed they will exploit you with false words, their judgment from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep." 
2Peter2:4 For if God did not spare angels who sinned, but cast them into the pit and delivered them to chains of darkness, being kept for judgment;" 
2Peter2:5 and did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a preacher of righteousness, with seven others, when He brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;" 
2Peter2:6 and if He condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction by reducing them to ashes, having made them an example to those who would live ungodly lives thereafter;" 
2Peter2:7 and if He rescued righteous Lot, oppressed by the sensual conduct of unprincipled men" 
2Peter2:8 (for by what he saw and heard that righteous man, while living among them, felt his righteous soul tormented day after day by their lawless deeds)," 
2Peter2:9 then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trial, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment," 
2Peter2:10 and especially those who go after the flesh in its corrupt lust and despise authority. Daring, self-willed, they do not tremble when they blaspheme glorious ones," 
2Peter2:11 whereas angels who are greater in strength and power do not bring a reviling judgment against them before the Lord. 
2Peter2:12 But these, like unreasoning animals, born as creatures of instinct to be captured and killed, blaspheming where they have no knowledge, will in the destruction of those creatures also be destroyed," 
2Peter2:13 suffering unrighteousness as the wages of their unrighteousness, considering it a pleasure to revel in the daytime—they are stains and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, as they feast with you," 
2Peter2:14 having eyes full of adultery and unceasing sin, enticing unstable souls, having a heart trained in greed—they are accursed children." 
2Peter2:15 Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray, having followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness," 
2Peter2:16 but he received a rebuke for his own lawlessness, for a mute donkey, speaking out with a voice of a man, restrained the madness of the prophet." 
2Peter2:17 These are springs without water and mists driven by a storm, for whom the black darkness has been kept." 
2Peter2:18 For speaking out arrogant words of vanity, they entice by sensual lusts of the flesh, those who barely escape from the ones who conducted themselves in error," 
2Peter2:19 promising them freedom while they themselves are slaves of corruption; for by what a man is overcome, by this he is enslaved." 
2Peter2:20 For if they are overcome, having both escaped the defilements of the world by the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and having again been entangled in them, then the last state has become worse for them than the first." 
2Peter2:21 For it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than having known it, to turn away from the holy commandment handed on to them." 
2Peter2:22 The message of the true proverb has happened to them, “A dog returns to its own vomit,” and, “A sow, after washing, returns to wallowing in the mire.”" 
2Peter3:1 This is now, beloved, the second letter I am writing to you in which I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder," 
2Peter3:2 that you should remember the words spoken beforehand by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior spoken by your apostles," 
2Peter3:3 knowing this first of all, that in the last days mockers will come with their mocking, following after their own lusts," 
2Peter3:4 and saying, “Where is the promise of His coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation.”" 
2Peter3:5 For when they maintain this, it escapes their notice that by the word of God the heavens existed long ago and the earth was formed out of water and by water," 
2Peter3:6 through which the world at that time was destroyed, being deluged with water." 
2Peter3:7 But by His word the present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men." 
2Peter3:8 But do not let this one fact escape your notice, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years like one day." 
2Peter3:9 The Lord is not slow about His promise, as some consider slowness, but is patient toward you, not willing for any to perish but for all to come to repentance." 
2Peter3:10 But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat, and the earth and its works will be found out." 
2Peter3:11 Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way, what sort of people ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness," 
2Peter3:12 looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens burning will be destroyed, and the elements will melt with intense heat!" 
2Peter3:13 But according to His promise we are looking for new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells." 
2Peter3:14 Therefore, beloved, since you are looking for these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace, spotless and blameless," 
2Peter3:15 and consider the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given him, wrote to you," 
2Peter3:16 as also in all his letters, speaking in them of these things, in which are some things hard to understand, which the untaught and unstable distort, as they do also the rest of the Scriptures, to their own destruction." 
2Peter3:17 You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, be on your guard lest you, having been carried away by the error of unprincipled men, fall from your own steadfastness," 
2Peter3:18 but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory, both now and to the day of eternity. Amen." 
1John1:1 What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we beheld and touched with our hands, concerning the Word of Life—" 
1John1:1 What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we beheld and touched with our hands, concerning the Word of Life—" 
1John1:2 and the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us—" 
1John1:2 and the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us—" 
1John1:3 what we have seen and heard we proclaim to you also, so that you may also have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father, and with His Son Jesus Christ." 
1John1:3 what we have seen and heard we proclaim to you also, so that you may also have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father, and with His Son Jesus Christ." 
1John1:4 And these things we are writing, so that our joy may be made complete." 
1John1:4 And these things we are writing, so that our joy may be made complete." 
1John1:5 And this is the message we have heard from Him and declare to you, that God is Light, and in Him there is no darkness at all." 
1John1:5 And this is the message we have heard from Him and declare to you, that God is Light, and in Him there is no darkness at all." 
1John1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not do the truth;" 
1John1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not do the truth;" 
1John1:7 but if we walk in the Light as He Himself is in the Light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from all sin." 
1John1:7 but if we walk in the Light as He Himself is in the Light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from all sin." 
1John1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us." 
1John1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us." 
1John1:9 If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:9 If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 
1John1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar and His word is not in us." 
1John1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar and His word is not in us." 
1John2:1 My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous;" 
1John2:1 My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous;" 
1John2:2 and He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world." 
1John2:2 and He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world." 
1John2:3 And by this we know that we have come to know Him, if we keep His commandments." 
1John2:3 And by this we know that we have come to know Him, if we keep His commandments." 
1John2:4 The one who says, “I have come to know Him,” and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him;" 
1John2:4 The one who says, “I have come to know Him,” and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him;" 
1John2:5 but whoever keeps His word, truly in him the love of God has been perfected. By this we know that we are in Him:" 
1John2:5 but whoever keeps His word, truly in him the love of God has been perfected. By this we know that we are in Him:" 
1John2:6 the one who says he abides in Him ought himself to walk in the same manner as He walked. 
1John2:6 the one who says he abides in Him ought himself to walk in the same manner as He walked. 
1John2:7 Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word which you have heard." 
1John2:7 Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word which you have heard." 
1John2:8 On the other hand, I am writing a new commandment to you, which is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true Light is already shining." 
1John2:8 On the other hand, I am writing a new commandment to you, which is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true Light is already shining." 
1John2:9 The one who says he is in the Light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now. 
1John2:9 The one who says he is in the Light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now. 
1John2:10 The one who loves his brother abides in the Light and there is no cause for stumbling in him. 
1John2:10 The one who loves his brother abides in the Light and there is no cause for stumbling in him. 
1John2:11 But the one who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going because the darkness blinded his eyes." 
1John2:11 But the one who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going because the darkness blinded his eyes." 
1John2:12 I am writing to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you for His name’s sake." 
1John2:12 I am writing to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you for His name’s sake." 
1John2:13 I am writing to you, fathers, because you have known Him who has been from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I have written to you, children, because you have known the Father." 
1John2:13 I am writing to you, fathers, because you have known Him who has been from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I have written to you, children, because you have known the Father." 
1John2:14 I have written to you, fathers, because you have known Him who has been from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one." 
1John2:14 I have written to you, fathers, because you have known Him who has been from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one." 
1John2:15 Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him." 
1John2:15 Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him." 
1John2:16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world." 
1John2:16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world." 
1John2:17 And the world is passing away, and also its lusts, but the one who does the will of God abides forever." 
1John2:17 And the world is passing away, and also its lusts, but the one who does the will of God abides forever." 
1John2:18 Children, it is the last hour; and just as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have appeared. From this we know that it is the last hour." 
1John2:18 Children, it is the last hour; and just as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have appeared. From this we know that it is the last hour." 
1John2:19 They went out from us, but they were not really of us; for if they were of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out, so that it would be manifested that they all are not of us." 
1John2:19 They went out from us, but they were not really of us; for if they were of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out, so that it would be manifested that they all are not of us." 
1John2:20 But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know." 
1John2:20 But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know." 
1John2:21 I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lie is of the truth." 
1John2:21 I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lie is of the truth." 
1John2:22 Who is the liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son." 
1John2:22 Who is the liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son." 
1John2:23 Everyone who denies the Son does not have the Father; the one who confesses the Son has the Father also. 
1John2:23 Everyone who denies the Son does not have the Father; the one who confesses the Son has the Father also. 
1John2:24 As for you, let that which you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father." 
1John2:24 As for you, let that which you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father." 
1John2:25 And this is the promise which He Himself made to us: eternal life. 
1John2:25 And this is the promise which He Himself made to us: eternal life. 
1John2:26 These things I have written to you about those who are trying to deceive you. 
1John2:26 These things I have written to you about those who are trying to deceive you. 
1John2:27 And as for you, the anointing whom you received from Him abides in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you. But as His anointing teaches you about all things, and is true and is not a lie, and just as He has taught you, abide in Him." 
1John2:27 And as for you, the anointing whom you received from Him abides in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you. But as His anointing teaches you about all things, and is true and is not a lie, and just as He has taught you, abide in Him." 
1John2:28 And now, little children, abide in Him, so that when He is manifested, we may have confidence and not shrink away from Him in shame at His coming." 
1John2:28 And now, little children, abide in Him, so that when He is manifested, we may have confidence and not shrink away from Him in shame at His coming." 
1John2:29 If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone also who does righteousness has been born of Him." 
1John2:29 If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone also who does righteousness has been born of Him." 
1John3:1 See how great a love the Father has given to us, that we would be called children of God; and we are. For this reason the world does not know us, because it did not know Him." 
1John3:1 See how great a love the Father has given to us, that we would be called children of God; and we are. For this reason the world does not know us, because it did not know Him." 
1John3:2 Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not been manifested as yet what we will be. We know that when He is manifested, we will be like Him, because we will see Him just as He is." 
1John3:2 Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not been manifested as yet what we will be. We know that when He is manifested, we will be like Him, because we will see Him just as He is." 
1John3:3 And everyone who has this hope fixed on Him purifies himself, just as He is pure." 
1John3:3 And everyone who has this hope fixed on Him purifies himself, just as He is pure." 
1John3:4 Everyone who does sin also does lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness. 
1John3:4 Everyone who does sin also does lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness. 
1John3:5 And you know that He was manifested in order to take away sins, and in Him there is no sin." 
1John3:5 And you know that He was manifested in order to take away sins, and in Him there is no sin." 
1John3:6 No one who abides in Him sins; no one who sins has seen Him or has come to know Him. 
1John3:6 No one who abides in Him sins; no one who sins has seen Him or has come to know Him. 
1John3:7 Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who does righteousness is righteous, just as He is righteous." 
1John3:7 Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who does righteousness is righteous, just as He is righteous." 
1John3:8 The one who does sin is of the devil, because the devil sins from the beginning. The Son of God was manifested for this purpose, to destroy the works of the devil." 
1John3:8 The one who does sin is of the devil, because the devil sins from the beginning. The Son of God was manifested for this purpose, to destroy the works of the devil." 
1John3:9 Everyone who has been born of God does not sin, because His seed abides in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been born of God." 
1John3:9 Everyone who has been born of God does not sin, because His seed abides in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been born of God." 
1John3:10 By this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifested: everyone who does not do righteousness is not of God, as well as the one who does not love his brother." 
1John3:10 By this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifested: everyone who does not do righteousness is not of God, as well as the one who does not love his brother." 
1John3:11 For this is the message which you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another;" 
1John3:11 For this is the message which you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another;" 
1John3:12 not as Cain, who was of the evil one and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brother’s were righteous." 
1John3:12 not as Cain, who was of the evil one and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brother’s were righteous." 
1John3:13 Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you." 
1John3:13 Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you." 
1John3:14 We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. The one who does not love abides in death." 
1John3:14 We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. The one who does not love abides in death." 
1John3:15 Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him." 
1John3:15 Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him." 
1John3:16 By this we have known love, that He laid down His life for us; and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers." 
1John3:16 By this we have known love, that He laid down His life for us; and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers." 
1John3:17 But whoever has the world’s goods, and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him?" 
1John3:17 But whoever has the world’s goods, and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him?" 
1John3:18 Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and truth." 
1John3:18 Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and truth." 
1John3:19 And by this we will know that we are of the truth, and will assure our heart before Him" 
1John3:19 And by this we will know that we are of the truth, and will assure our heart before Him" 
1John3:20 in whatever our heart condemns us; for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. 
1John3:20 in whatever our heart condemns us; for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. 
1John3:21 Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;" 
1John3:21 Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;" 
1John3:22 and whatever we ask we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight." 
1John3:22 and whatever we ask we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight." 
1John3:23 And this is His commandment, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, just as He gave a commandment to us." 
1John3:23 And this is His commandment, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, just as He gave a commandment to us." 
1John3:24 And the one who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. We know by this that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He gave us." 
1John3:24 And the one who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. We know by this that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He gave us." 
1John4:1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world." 
1John4:1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world." 
1John4:2 By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God," 
1John4:2 By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God," 
1John4:3 and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and now it is already in the world." 
1John4:3 and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and now it is already in the world." 
1John4:4 You are from God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world." 
1John4:4 You are from God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world." 
1John4:5 They are from the world; therefore they speak as from the world, and the world hears them." 
1John4:5 They are from the world; therefore they speak as from the world, and the world hears them." 
1John4:6 We are from God. The one who knows God hears us; the one who is not from God does not hear us. From this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. 
1John4:6 We are from God. The one who knows God hears us; the one who is not from God does not hear us. From this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. 
1John4:7 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God; and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God." 
1John4:7 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God; and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God." 
1John4:8 The one who does not love does not know God, because God is love." 
1John4:8 The one who does not love does not know God, because God is love." 
1John4:9 By this the love of God was manifested in us, that God has sent His only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him." 
1John4:9 By this the love of God was manifested in us, that God has sent His only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him." 
1John4:10 In this is love, not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins." 
1John4:10 In this is love, not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins." 
1John4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another." 
1John4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another." 
1John4:12 No one has beheld God at any time; if we love one another, God abides in us, and His love is perfected in us." 
1John4:12 No one has beheld God at any time; if we love one another, God abides in us, and His love is perfected in us." 
1John4:13 By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit." 
1John4:13 By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit." 
1John4:14 We have beheld and bear witness that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. 
1John4:14 We have beheld and bear witness that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. 
1John4:15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God." 
1John4:15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God." 
1John4:16 And we have come to know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love, and the one who abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him." 
1John4:16 And we have come to know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love, and the one who abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him." 
1John4:17 By this, love has been perfected with us, so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, because as He is, so also are we in this world." 
1John4:17 By this, love has been perfected with us, so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, because as He is, so also are we in this world." 
1John4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not perfected in love." 
1John4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not perfected in love." 
1John4:19 We love, because He first loved us." 
1John4:19 We love, because He first loved us." 
1John4:20 If someone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar; for the one who does not love his brother whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen." 
1John4:20 If someone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar; for the one who does not love his brother whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen." 
1John4:21 And this commandment we have from Him, that the one who loves God should love his brother also." 
1John4:21 And this commandment we have from Him, that the one who loves God should love his brother also." 
1John5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the One who gives new birth loves also the one who has been born of Him." 
1John5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the One who gives new birth loves also the one who has been born of Him." 
1John5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments." 
1John5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments." 
1John5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome." 
1John5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome." 
1John5:4 For everything that has been born of God overcomes the world; and this is the overcoming that has overcome the world—our faith. 
1John5:4 For everything that has been born of God overcomes the world; and this is the overcoming that has overcome the world—our faith. 
1John5:5 Who is the one who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?" 
1John5:5 Who is the one who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?" 
1John5:6 This is the One who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ; not with the water only, but with the water and with the blood. It is the Spirit who bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth." 
1John5:6 This is the One who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ; not with the water only, but with the water and with the blood. It is the Spirit who bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth." 
1John5:7 For there are three that bear witness: 
1John5:7 For there are three that bear witness: 
1John5:8 the Spirit and the water and the blood; and the three are in agreement. 
1John5:8 the Spirit and the water and the blood; and the three are in agreement. 
1John5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater; for the witness of God is this, that He has borne witness about His Son." 
1John5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater; for the witness of God is this, that He has borne witness about His Son." 
1John5:10 The one who believes in the Son of God has this witness in himself. The one who does not believe God has made Him a liar, because he has not believed in the witness which God has borne witness about His Son." 
1John5:10 The one who believes in the Son of God has this witness in himself. The one who does not believe God has made Him a liar, because he has not believed in the witness which God has borne witness about His Son." 
1John5:11 And the witness is this, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in His Son." 
1John5:11 And the witness is this, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in His Son." 
1John5:12 He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have that life. 
1John5:12 He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have that life. 
1John5:13 These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life." 
1John5:13 These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life." 
1John5:14 And this is the confidence which we have before Him, that, if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us." 
1John5:14 And this is the confidence which we have before Him, that, if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us." 
1John5:15 And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him." 
1John5:15 And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him." 
1John5:16 If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask and God will for him give life to those who commit sin not leading to death. There is a sin leading to death; I do not say that he should make request for this." 
1John5:16 If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask and God will for him give life to those who commit sin not leading to death. There is a sin leading to death; I do not say that he should make request for this." 
1John5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not leading to death." 
1John5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not leading to death." 
1John5:18 We know that no one who has been born of God sins; but He who was begotten of God keeps him, and the evil one does not touch him." 
1John5:18 We know that no one who has been born of God sins; but He who was begotten of God keeps him, and the evil one does not touch him." 
1John5:19 We know that we are of God, and that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one." 
1John5:19 We know that we are of God, and that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one." 
1John5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us understanding so that we may know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life." 
1John5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us understanding so that we may know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life." 
1John5:21 Little children, guard yourselves from idols." 
1John5:21 Little children, guard yourselves from idols." 
2John1:1 The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth," 
2John1:1 The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth," 
2John1:2 for the sake of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever: 
2John1:2 for the sake of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever: 
2John1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love." 
2John1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love." 
2John1:4 I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in truth, just as we received commandment from the Father." 
2John1:4 I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in truth, just as we received commandment from the Father." 
2John1:5 Now I ask you, lady, not as though I were writing to you a new commandment, but the one which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another." 
2John1:5 Now I ask you, lady, not as though I were writing to you a new commandment, but the one which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another." 
2John1:6 And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it." 
2John1:6 And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it." 
2John1:7 For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist." 
2John1:7 For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist." 
2John1:8 See to yourselves, that you do not lose what we accomplished, but that you may receive a full reward." 
2John1:8 See to yourselves, that you do not lose what we accomplished, but that you may receive a full reward." 
2John1:9 Anyone who goes too far and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. The one who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son." 
2John1:9 Anyone who goes too far and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. The one who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son." 
2John1:10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not give him a greeting," 
2John1:10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not give him a greeting," 
2John1:11 for the one who gives him a greeting participates in his evil deeds. 
2John1:11 for the one who gives him a greeting participates in his evil deeds. 
2John1:12 Though I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink; but I hope to come to you and speak face to face, so that your joy may be made complete." 
2John1:12 Though I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink; but I hope to come to you and speak face to face, so that your joy may be made complete." 
2John1:13 The children of your elect sister greet you. 
2John1:13 The children of your elect sister greet you. 
3John1:1 The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth." 
3John1:1 The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth." 
3John1:2 Beloved, I pray that in all respects you may prosper and be in good health, just as your soul prospers." 
3John1:2 Beloved, I pray that in all respects you may prosper and be in good health, just as your soul prospers." 
3John1:3 For I rejoiced greatly when brothers came and bore witness to your truth, that is, how you are walking in truth." 
3John1:3 For I rejoiced greatly when brothers came and bore witness to your truth, that is, how you are walking in truth." 
3John1:4 I have no greater joy than this, to hear that my children are walking in the truth." 
3John1:4 I have no greater joy than this, to hear that my children are walking in the truth." 
3John1:5 Beloved, you are acting faithfully in whatever work you do for the brothers, and are doing this though they are strangers;" 
3John1:5 Beloved, you are acting faithfully in whatever work you do for the brothers, and are doing this though they are strangers;" 
3John1:6 and they bore witness to your love before the church. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God. 
3John1:6 and they bore witness to your love before the church. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God. 
3John1:7 For they went out for the sake of the Name, receiving nothing from the Gentiles." 
3John1:7 For they went out for the sake of the Name, receiving nothing from the Gentiles." 
3John1:8 Therefore we ought to support such men, so that we may be fellow workers with the truth." 
3John1:8 Therefore we ought to support such men, so that we may be fellow workers with the truth." 
3John1:9 I wrote something to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not welcome what we say." 
3John1:9 I wrote something to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not welcome what we say." 
3John1:10 For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his deeds which he does, unjustly disparaging us with wicked words. And not satisfied with this, he himself does not welcome the brothers either, and he forbids those who want to do so and puts them out of the church." 
3John1:10 For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his deeds which he does, unjustly disparaging us with wicked words. And not satisfied with this, he himself does not welcome the brothers either, and he forbids those who want to do so and puts them out of the church." 
3John1:11 Beloved, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. The one who does good is of God; the one who does evil has not seen God." 
3John1:11 Beloved, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. The one who does good is of God; the one who does evil has not seen God." 
3John1:12 Demetrius has received a good witness from everyone, and from the truth itself; and we add our witness, and you know that our witness is true." 
3John1:12 Demetrius has received a good witness from everyone, and from the truth itself; and we add our witness, and you know that our witness is true." 
3John1:13 I had many things to write to you, but I am not willing to write them to you with pen and ink;" 
3John1:13 I had many things to write to you, but I am not willing to write them to you with pen and ink;" 
3John1:14 but I hope to see you shortly, and we will speak face to face." 
3John1:14 but I hope to see you shortly, and we will speak face to face." 
3John1:15 Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name. 
3John1:15 Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name. 
Jude1:1 Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, To those who are the called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ:" 
Jude1:1 Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, To those who are the called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ:" 
Jude1:2 May mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. 
Jude1:3 Beloved, while I was making every effort to write you about our common salvation, I felt the necessity to write to you exhorting that you contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all handed down to the saints." 
Jude1:4 For certain persons have crept in unnoticed, those who were long beforehand marked out for this condemnation, ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ." 
Jude1:5 Now I want to remind you, though you know all things, that Jesus, having once saved a people out of the land of Egypt, subsequently destroyed those who did not believe." 
Jude1:6 And angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandoned their proper abode, He has kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day," 
Jude1:7 just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, having indulged in the same way as these in gross sexual immorality and having gone after strange flesh, are exhibited as an example in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire." 
Jude1:8 Yet in the same way these men, also by dreaming, defile the flesh, and reject authority, and blaspheme glorious ones." 
Jude1:9 But Michael the archangel, when he, disputing with the devil, was arguing about the body of Moses, did not dare pronounce against him a blasphemous judgment, but said, “The Lord rebuke you!”" 
Jude1:10 But these men blaspheme the things which they do not understand; and the things which they know by instinct, like unreasoning animals, by these things they are destroyed." 
Jude1:11 Woe to them! For they have gone the way of Cain, and for pay they have poured themselves into the error of Balaam, and perished in the rebellion of Korah." 
Jude1:12 These are the men who are hidden reefs in your love feasts when they feast with you without fear, caring for themselves; clouds without water, carried along by winds; autumn trees without fruit, doubly dead, uprooted;" 
Jude1:13 wild waves of the sea, casting up their own shame like foam; wandering stars, for whom the black darkness has been reserved forever." 
Jude1:14 But Enoch, in the seventh generation from Adam, also prophesied about these men, saying, “Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of His holy ones," 
Jude1:15 to execute judgment upon all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.”" 
Jude1:16 These are grumblers, finding fault, following after their own lusts; and their mouth speaks arrogantly, flattering people for the sake of their own benefit." 
Jude1:17 But you, beloved, must remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ," 
Jude1:18 that they were saying to you, “In the last time there will be mockers, following after their own ungodly lusts.”" 
Jude1:19 These are the ones who cause divisions, worldly-minded, not having the Spirit." 
Jude1:20 But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit," 
Jude1:21 keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life." 
Jude1:22 And on some, who are doubting, have mercy;" 
Jude1:23 and for others, save, snatching them out of the fire; and on others have mercy with fear, hating even the tunic polluted by the flesh." 
Jude1:24 Now to Him who is able to keep you from stumbling, and to make you stand in the presence of His glory blameless with great joy," 
Jude1:25 to the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, might, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen." 
Revelation1:1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Him to show to His slaves the things which must soon happen; and He indicated this by sending it through His angel to His slave John," 
Revelation1:1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Him to show to His slaves the things which must soon happen; and He indicated this by sending it through His angel to His slave John," 
Revelation1:2 who bore witness to the word of God and to the witness of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw." 
Revelation1:3 Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and keep the things which are written in it, for the time is near." 
Revelation1:4 John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace, from the One who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne," 
Revelation1:4 John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace, from the One who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne," 
Revelation1:5 and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who loves us and released us from our sins by His blood—" 
Revelation1:6 and He has made us to be a kingdom, priests to His God and Father—to Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen." 
Revelation1:7 Behold, He is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced Him; and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over Him. Yes, amen." 
Revelation1:8 “I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God, “who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.”" 
Revelation1:9 I, John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and perseverance which are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the witness of Jesus." 
Revelation1:9 I, John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and perseverance which are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the witness of Jesus." 
Revelation1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet," 
Revelation1:11 saying, “Write in a scroll what you see, and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.”" 
Revelation1:12 Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me. And having turned I saw seven golden lampstands; 
Revelation1:13 and in the middle of the lampstands I saw one like a son of man, clothed in a robe reaching to the feet, and girded across His chest with a golden sash." 
Revelation1:14 And His head and His hair were white like white wool, like snow; and His eyes were like a flame of fire." 
Revelation1:15 His feet were like burnished bronze, when it has been made to glow in a furnace, and His voice was like the sound of many waters," 
Revelation1:16 and having in His right hand seven stars, and a sharp two-edged sword which comes out of His mouth, and His face was like the sun shining in its power." 
Revelation1:17 And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet like a dead man. And He placed His right hand on me, saying, “Do not fear; I am the first and the last," 
Revelation1:18 and the living One; and I was dead, and behold, I am alive forever and ever, and I have the keys of death and of Hades." 
Revelation1:19 Therefore write the things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will take place after these things." 
Revelation1:20 As for the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in My right hand, and the seven golden lampstands: the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches." 
Revelation2:1 “To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: This is what the One who holds the seven stars in His right hand, the One who walks among the seven golden lampstands, says:" 
Revelation2:2 ‘I know your deeds and your toil and perseverance, and that you cannot bear with those who are evil, and you put to the test those who call themselves apostles, and they are not, and you found them to be false;" 
Revelation2:3 and you have perseverance and have endured for My name’s sake, you also have not grown weary." 
Revelation2:4 But I have this against you, that you have left your first love." 
Revelation2:5 Therefore remember from where you have fallen, and repent and do the deeds you did at first. But if not, I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its place, unless you repent." 
Revelation2:6 Yet this you do have, that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate." 
Revelation2:7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the Paradise of God.’" 
Revelation2:8 “And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: This is what the first and the last, who was dead, and has come to life, says:" 
Revelation2:9 ‘I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy by those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan." 
Revelation2:10 Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison, so that you will be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life." 
Revelation2:11 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes will never be hurt by the second death.’" 
Revelation2:12 “And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: This is what the One who has the sharp two-edged sword says: 
Revelation2:13 ‘I know where you dwell, where Satan’s throne is; and you hold fast My name, and did not deny My faith even in the days of Antipas, My witness, My faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells." 
Revelation2:14 But I have a few things against you, that you have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who kept teaching Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality." 
Revelation2:15 So you also have some who in the same way hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans. 
Revelation2:16 Therefore repent. But if not, I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of My mouth." 
Revelation2:17 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and a new name written on the stone which no one knows but he who receives it.’" 
Revelation2:18 “And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: This is what the Son of God, the One who has eyes like a flame of fire and His feet are like burnished bronze, says:" 
Revelation2:19 ‘I know your deeds, and your love and faith and service and perseverance, and that your last deeds are greater than at first." 
Revelation2:20 But I have this against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and she teaches and deceives My slaves so that they commit sexual immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols." 
Revelation2:21 And I gave her time to repent, and she does not wish to repent of her sexual immorality." 
Revelation2:22 Behold, I will throw her on a bed of sickness, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of her deeds." 
Revelation2:23 And I will kill her children with pestilence, and all the churches will know that I am He who searches the minds and hearts; and I will give to each one of you according to your deeds." 
Revelation2:24 But I say to you, the rest who are in Thyatira, who do not have this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they call them—I place no other burden on you." 
Revelation2:25 Nevertheless what you have, hold fast until I come." 
Revelation2:26 And he who overcomes, and he who keeps My deeds until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations;" 
Revelation2:27 and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces, as I also have received authority from My Father;" 
Revelation2:28 and I will give him the morning star. 
Revelation2:29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’" 
Revelation3:1 “And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: This is what He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars, says: ‘I know your deeds, that you have a name that you are alive, but you are dead." 
Revelation3:2 Wake up, and strengthen the things that remain, which were about to die, for I have not found your deeds complete in the sight of My God." 
Revelation3:3 So remember what you have received and heard; and keep it, and repent. Therefore if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come to you." 
Revelation3:4 But you have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments, and they will walk with Me in white, for they are worthy." 
Revelation3:5 He who overcomes will thus be clothed in white garments, and I will never erase his name from the book of life, and I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels." 
Revelation3:6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’" 
Revelation3:7 “And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: This is what He who is holy, who is true, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one opens, says:" 
Revelation3:8 ‘I know your deeds. Behold, I have given before you an open door which no one can shut, because you have a little power, and have kept My word, and have not denied My name." 
Revelation3:9 Behold, I am giving up those of the synagogue of Satan, those who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie. Behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and make them know that I have loved you." 
Revelation3:10 Because you have kept the word of My perseverance, I also will keep you from the hour of testing, which is about to come upon the whole world, to test those who dwell on the earth." 
Revelation3:11 I am coming quickly; hold fast what you have, so that no one will take your crown." 
Revelation3:12 He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the sanctuary of My God, and he will never go out from it anymore. And I will write on him the name of My God, and the name of the city of My God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from My God, and My new name." 
Revelation3:13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’" 
Revelation3:14 “And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: This is what the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the Beginning of the creation of God, says:" 
Revelation3:15 ‘I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot." 
Revelation3:16 So because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of My mouth." 
Revelation3:17 Because you say, “I am rich, and have become wealthy, and have need of nothing,” and you do not know that you are wretched and pitiable and poor and blind and naked." 
Revelation3:18 I advise you to buy from Me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness will not be manifested; and eye salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see." 
Revelation3:19 Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent." 
Revelation3:20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and will dine with him, and he with Me." 
Revelation3:21 He who overcomes, I will grant to him to sit down with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne." 
Revelation3:22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’”" 
Revelation4:1 After these things I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I had heard, like the sound of a trumpet speaking with me, said, “Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after these things.”" 
Revelation4:2 Immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne was standing in heaven, and One sitting on the throne." 
Revelation4:3 And He who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance; and there was a rainbow around the throne, like an emerald in appearance." 
Revelation4:4 Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and upon those thrones I saw twenty-four elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and golden crowns on their heads." 
Revelation4:5 And out from the throne come flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God." 
Revelation4:6 And before the throne there was something like a sea of glass, like crystal. And in the center and around the throne, four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind." 
Revelation4:7 And the first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like that of a man, and the fourth creature was like a flying eagle." 
Revelation4:8 And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes around and within, and day and night they do not cease to say, “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come.”" 
Revelation4:9 And when the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits on the throne, to Him who lives forever and ever," 
Revelation4:10 the twenty-four elders will fall down before Him who sits on the throne, and will worship Him who lives forever and ever, and will cast their crowns before the throne, saying," 
Revelation4:11 “Worthy are You, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for You created all things, and because of Your will they existed, and were created.”" 
Revelation5:1 Then I saw in the right hand of Him who sits on the throne a scroll written inside and on the back, sealed up with seven seals." 
Revelation5:2 Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?”" 
Revelation5:3 And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it. 
Revelation5:4 Then I was crying greatly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. 
Revelation5:5 And one of the elders said to me, “Stop crying! Behold, the Lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome so as to open the scroll and its seven seals.”" 
Revelation5:6 Then I saw in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders a Lamb standing, as if slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent out into all the earth." 
Revelation5:7 And He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who sits on the throne. 
Revelation5:8 And when He had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints." 
Revelation5:9 And they sang a new song, saying, “Worthy are You to take the scroll and to open its seals, because You were slain and purchased for God with Your blood people from every tribe and tongue and people and nation." 
Revelation5:10 And You made them to be a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign upon the earth.”" 
Revelation5:11 Then I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands," 
Revelation5:12 saying with a loud voice, “Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.”" 
Revelation5:13 And every created thing which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea, and all things in them, I heard saying, “To Him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.”" 
Revelation5:14 And the four living creatures kept saying, “Amen.” And the elders fell down and worshiped." 
Revelation6:1 Then I looked when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying as with a voice of thunder, “Come.”" 
Revelation6:2 Then I looked, and behold, a white horse, and he who sits on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went out overcoming and to overcome." 
Revelation6:3 And when He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, “Come.”" 
Revelation6:4 And another, a red horse, went out; and to him who sits on it, it was given to him to take peace from the earth, and that men would slay one another; and a great sword was given to him." 
Revelation6:5 And when He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, “Come.” Then I looked, and behold, a black horse; and he who sits on it had a pair of scales in his hand." 
Revelation6:6 And I heard something like a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, “One choinix of wheat for one denarius, and three choinix of barley for one denarius, and do not harm the oil and the wine.”" 
Revelation6:7 And when He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, “Come.”" 
Revelation6:8 Then I looked, and behold, a pale horse; and he who sits on it had the name Death, and Hades was following with him. Authority was given to them over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by the wild beasts of the earth." 
Revelation6:9 And when He opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God, and because of the witness which they had maintained;" 
Revelation6:10 and they cried out with a loud voice, saying, “How long, O Master, holy and true? Will You not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?”" 
Revelation6:11 And a white robe was given to each of them; and it was told to them that they should rest for a little while longer, until the number of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were to be killed even as they had been, would be completed also." 
Revelation6:12 Then I looked when He opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon became like blood;" 
Revelation6:13 and the stars of the sky fell to the earth, as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind." 
Revelation6:14 And the sky was split apart like a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places." 
Revelation6:15 Then the kings of the earth and the great men and the commanders and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains; 
Revelation6:16 and they said to the mountains and to the rocks, “Fall on us and hide us from the presence of Him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb," 
Revelation6:17 for the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?”" 
Revelation7:1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth or on the sea or on any tree." 
Revelation7:2 Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God; and he cried out with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was granted to harm the earth and the sea," 
Revelation7:3 saying, “Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the slaves of our God on their foreheads.”" 
Revelation7:4 And I heard the number of those having been sealed, 144,000 sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel:" 
Revelation7:5 from the tribe of Judah, 12,000 having been sealed, from the tribe of Reuben 12,000, from the tribe of Gad 12,000," 
Revelation7:6 from the tribe of Asher 12,000, from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000, from the tribe of Manasseh 12,000," 
Revelation7:7 from the tribe of Simeon 12,000, from the tribe of Levi 12,000, from the tribe of Issachar 12,000," 
Revelation7:8 from the tribe of Zebulun 12,000, from the tribe of Joseph 12,000, from the tribe of Benjamin, 12,000 having been sealed." 
Revelation7:9 After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude which no one could count, from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, and palm branches were in their hands;" 
Revelation7:10 and they cry out with a loud voice, saying, “Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb.”" 
Revelation7:11 And all the angels were standing around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God," 
Revelation7:12 saying, “Amen, the blessing and the glory and the wisdom and the thanksgiving and the honor and the power and the strength, be to our God forever and ever. Amen.”" 
Revelation7:13 Then one of the elders answered, saying to me, “These, clothed in the white robes, who are they, and from where have they come?”" 
Revelation7:14 And I said to him, “My lord, you know.” And he said to me, “These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation, and they washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb." 
Revelation7:15 For this reason, they are before the throne of God; and they serve Him day and night in His sanctuary; and He who sits on the throne will dwell over them." 
Revelation7:16 They will hunger no longer, nor thirst anymore; nor will the sun beat down on them, nor any heat;" 
Revelation7:17 for the Lamb at the center of the throne will shepherd them and will guide them to springs of the water of life. And God will wipe every tear from their eyes.” 
Revelation8:1 When He opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour." 
Revelation8:2 Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them." 
Revelation8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and much incense was given to him, so that he might add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne." 
Revelation8:4 And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the saints, out of the angel’s hand, before God." 
Revelation8:5 Then the angel took the censer and filled it with the fire of the altar, and threw it to the earth; and there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake." 
Revelation8:6 And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound them. 
Revelation8:7 And the first sounded, and there came hail and fire, mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth; and a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up." 
Revelation8:8 And the second angel sounded, and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea; and a third of the sea became blood," 
Revelation8:9 and a third of the creatures which were in the sea—those which had life—died; and a third of the ships were destroyed. 
Revelation8:10 And the third angel sounded, and a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of waters." 
Revelation8:11 And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and a third of the waters became wormwood, and many men died from the waters, because they were made bitter." 
Revelation8:12 And the fourth angel sounded, and a third of the sun and a third of the moon and a third of the stars were struck, so that a third of them would be darkened and the day would not shine for a third of it, and the night in the same way." 
Revelation8:13 Then I looked, and I heard an eagle flying in midheaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth, because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound!”" 
Revelation9:1 Then the fifth angel sounded. Then I saw a star from heaven which had fallen to the earth, and the key of the pit of the abyss was given to him." 
Revelation9:2 And he opened the pit of the abyss and smoke went up out of the pit, like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit." 
Revelation9:3 Then out of the smoke came locusts upon the earth, and power was given them, as the scorpions of the earth have power." 
Revelation9:4 And they were told not to hurt the grass of the earth, nor any green thing, nor any tree, but only the men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads." 
Revelation9:5 And they were not permitted to kill anyone, but to torment for five months, and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings a man." 
Revelation9:6 And in those days men will seek death and will never find it; they will long to die, and death flees from them." 
Revelation9:7 And the appearance of the locusts was like horses prepared for battle. And on their heads appeared to be crowns like gold, and their faces were like the faces of men." 
Revelation9:8 And they had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions." 
Revelation9:9 And they had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots, of many horses running to battle." 
Revelation9:10 And they have tails like scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to hurt men for five months." 
Revelation9:11 They have as king over them, the angel of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in the Greek he has the name Apollyon." 
Revelation9:12 One woe is past; behold, two woes are still coming after these things." 
Revelation9:13 Then the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God," 
Revelation9:14 one saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, “Release the four angels who have been bound at the great river Euphrates.”" 
Revelation9:15 And the four angels were released, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year, so that they would kill a third of mankind." 
Revelation9:16 And the number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred million; I heard the number of them. 
Revelation9:17 And this is how I saw in the vision the horses and those who sit on them: the riders had breastplates the color of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone; and the heads of the horses are like the heads of lions; and out of their mouths come fire and smoke and brimstone. 
Revelation9:18 A third of mankind was killed by these three plagues, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone which came out of their mouths." 
Revelation9:19 For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails; for their tails are like serpents, having heads, and with them they do harm." 
Revelation9:20 And the rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship demons, and the idols of gold and of silver and of brass and of stone and of wood, which can neither see nor hear nor walk." 
Revelation9:21 And they did not repent of their murders nor of their sorceries nor of their sexual immorality nor of their thefts. 
Revelation10:1 Then I saw another strong angel coming down out of heaven, clothed with a cloud, and the rainbow was upon his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet like pillars of fire;" 
Revelation10:2 and he had in his hand a little scroll which was open. He placed his right foot on the sea and his left on the earth," 
Revelation10:3 and he cried out with a loud voice, as when a lion roars. And when he had cried out, the seven peals of thunder uttered their voices." 
Revelation10:4 And when the seven peals of thunder had spoken, I was about to write; and I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Seal up the things which the seven peals of thunder have spoken and do not write them.”" 
Revelation10:5 Then the angel, whom I saw standing on the sea and on the earth, lifted up his right hand to heaven," 
Revelation10:6 and swore by Him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it, that there will be delay no longer," 
Revelation10:7 but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, as He proclaimed good news to His slaves, the prophets." 
Revelation10:8 Then the voice which I heard from heaven, I heard again speaking with me, and saying, “Go, take the scroll which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the earth.”" 
Revelation10:9 So I went to the angel, telling him to give me the little scroll. And he said to me, “Take it and eat it; it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey.”" 
Revelation10:10 And I took the little scroll out of the angel’s hand and ate it, and in my mouth it was sweet as honey; and when I had eaten it, my stomach was made bitter." 
Revelation10:11 And they said to me, “You must prophesy again about many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.”" 
Revelation11:1 Then a measuring rod like a staff was given to me, saying, “Get up and measure the sanctuary of God and the altar, and those who worship in it." 
Revelation11:2 And leave out the court which is outside the sanctuary and do not measure it, for it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample the holy city under foot for forty-two months." 
Revelation11:3 And I will give authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth.”" 
Revelation11:4 These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. 
Revelation11:5 And if anyone wishes to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies; so if anyone wishes to harm them, he must be killed in this way." 
Revelation11:6 These have the authority to shut up the sky, so that rain will not fall during the days of their prophesying; they also have authority over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague, as often as they wish." 
Revelation11:7 And when they have finished their witness, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and overcome them and kill them." 
Revelation11:8 And their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified." 
Revelation11:9 And those from the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days, and will not permit their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb." 
Revelation11:10 And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and celebrate and send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth." 
Revelation11:11 But after the three and a half days, the breath of life from God came into them, and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell upon those who were watching them." 
Revelation11:12 And they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “Come up here.” Then they went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies watched them." 
Revelation11:13 And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell; seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven." 
Revelation11:14 The second woe is past; behold, the third woe is coming quickly." 
Revelation11:15 Then the seventh angel sounded, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ, and He will reign forever and ever.”" 
Revelation11:16 And the twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones before God, fell on their faces and worshiped God," 
Revelation11:17 saying, “We give You thanks, O Lord God, the Almighty, who is and who was, because You have taken Your great power and have begun to reign." 
Revelation11:18 And the nations were enraged, and Your rage came, and the time came for the dead to be judged, and to give reward to Your slaves—the prophets and the saints and those who fear Your name, the small and the great—and to destroy those who destroy the earth.”" 
Revelation11:19 And the sanctuary of God which is in heaven was opened, and the ark of His covenant appeared in His sanctuary, and there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and an earthquake and a great hailstorm." 
Revelation12:1 And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." 
Revelation12:2 And she was with child, and she cried out, being in labor and in pain to give birth." 
Revelation12:3 Then another sign appeared in heaven: and behold, a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven diadems." 
Revelation12:4 And his tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she gave birth he might devour her child." 
Revelation12:5 And she gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron; and her child was caught up to God and to His throne." 
Revelation12:6 Then the woman fled into the wilderness where she had a place prepared by God, so that there she would be nourished for 1,260 days." 
Revelation12:7 And there was war in heaven, Michael and his angels waging war with the dragon. The dragon and his angels waged war," 
Revelation12:8 and they were not strong enough, and there was no longer a place found for them in heaven." 
Revelation12:9 And the great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old who is called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him." 
Revelation12:10 Then I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, “Now the salvation, and the power, and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, he who accuses them before our God day and night." 
Revelation12:11 And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb and because of the word of their witness, and they did not love their life even to death." 
Revelation12:12 For this reason, rejoice, O heavens and you who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, knowing that he has only a short time.”" 
Revelation12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was thrown down to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child." 
Revelation12:14 But the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman, so that she could fly into the wilderness to her place, where she was nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent." 
Revelation12:15 And the serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, so that he might cause her to be swept away with the flood." 
Revelation12:16 But the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and drank up the river which the dragon poured out of his mouth." 
Revelation12:17 So the dragon was enraged with the woman and went off to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God and have the witness of Jesus." 
Revelation13:1 And the dragon stood on the sand of the seashore. Then I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns were ten diadems, and on his heads were blasphemous names." 
Revelation13:2 And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and his throne and great authority." 
Revelation13:3 And I saw one of his heads as if it had been slain fatally, and his fatal wound was healed. And the whole earth marveled and followed after the beast." 
Revelation13:4 And they worshiped the dragon because he gave his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, “Who is like the beast, and who is able to wage war with him?”" 
Revelation13:5 And there was given to him a mouth speaking great boasts and blasphemies, and authority to act for forty-two months was given to him." 
Revelation13:6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle, that is, those who dwell in heaven." 
Revelation13:7 And it was also given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them, and authority over every tribe and people and tongue and nation was given to him." 
Revelation13:8 And all who dwell on the earth will worship him, everyone whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb who has been slain." 
Revelation13:9 If anyone has an ear, let him hear." 
Revelation13:10 If anyone is destined for captivity, to captivity he goes; if anyone kills with the sword, with the sword he must be killed. Here is the perseverance and the faith of the saints." 
Revelation13:11 Then I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb and he was speaking as a dragon." 
Revelation13:12 And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence. And he makes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, whose fatal wound was healed." 
Revelation13:13 And he does great signs, so that he even makes fire come down out of heaven to the earth in the presence of men." 
Revelation13:14 And he deceives those who dwell on the earth because of the signs which were given to him to do in the presence of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who had the wound of the sword and has come to life." 
Revelation13:15 And it was given to him to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would even speak and cause as many as do not worship the image of the beast to be killed." 
Revelation13:16 And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the free men and the slaves, that they be given a mark on their right hand or on their forehead," 
Revelation13:17 and that no one will be able to buy or to sell, except the one who has the mark, either the name of the beast or the number of his name." 
Revelation13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of man; and his number is 666." 
Revelation14:1 Then I looked, and behold, the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion, and with Him 144,000, having His name and the name of His Father written on their foreheads." 
Revelation14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder, and the voice which I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps." 
Revelation14:3 And they sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. And no one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been purchased from the earth." 
Revelation14:4 These are the ones who are not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These have been purchased from among men as first fruits to God and to the Lamb." 
Revelation14:5 And no lie was found in their mouth; they are blameless. 
Revelation14:6 Then I saw another angel flying in midheaven, having an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who inhabit the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people." 
Revelation14:7 And he said with a loud voice, “Fear God, and give Him glory, because the hour of His judgment has come; worship Him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and springs of waters.”" 
Revelation14:8 And another angel, a second one, followed, saying, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who has made all the nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality.”" 
Revelation14:9 Then another angel, a third one, followed them, saying with a loud voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand," 
Revelation14:10 and he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is mixed in full strength in the cup of His rage, and he will be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb." 
Revelation14:11 And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever; they have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.”" 
Revelation14:12 Here is the perseverance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. 
Revelation14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven, saying, “Write, ‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on!’” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “so that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow with them.”" 
Revelation14:14 Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was one like a son of man, having a golden crown on His head and a sharp sickle in His hand." 
Revelation14:15 And another angel came out of the sanctuary, crying out with a loud voice to Him who sits on the cloud, “Put in Your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come, because the harvest of the earth is ripe.”" 
Revelation14:16 Then He who sits on the cloud swung His sickle over the earth, and the earth was reaped." 
Revelation14:17 And another angel came out of the sanctuary which is in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle." 
Revelation14:18 Then another angel, the one who has authority over fire, came out from the altar; and he called with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, “Put in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, because her grapes are ripe.”" 
Revelation14:19 So the angel swung his sickle to the earth and gathered the clusters from the vine of the earth, and threw them into the great wine press of the wrath of God." 
Revelation14:20 And the wine press was trodden outside the city, and blood came out from the wine press, up to the horses’ bridles, for a distance of 1,600 stadia." 
Revelation15:1 Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels who have seven plagues, which are the last, because in them the wrath of God is finished." 
Revelation15:2 Then I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire, and those who have overcome the beast and his image and the number of his name, standing on the sea of glass, having harps of God." 
Revelation15:3 And they sang the song of Moses, the slave of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, “Great and marvelous are Your works, O Lord God, the Almighty; Righteous and true are Your ways, King of the nations!" 
Revelation15:4 Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy; For all the nations will come and worship before You, For Your righteous acts have been revealed.”" 
Revelation15:5 And after these things I looked, and the sanctuary of the tabernacle of testimony in heaven was opened," 
Revelation15:6 and the seven angels who have the seven plagues came out of the sanctuary, clothed in linen, clean and bright, and girded around their chests with golden sashes." 
Revelation15:7 Then one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives forever and ever." 
Revelation15:8 And the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from His power; and no one was able to enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. 
Revelation16:1 Then I heard a loud voice from the sanctuary, saying to the seven angels, “Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.”" 
Revelation16:2 So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth; and it became a loathsome and malignant sore on the people who have the mark of the beast and who worship his image. 
Revelation16:3 And the second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood like that of a dead man, and every living thing in the sea died." 
Revelation16:4 Then the third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters, and they became blood." 
Revelation16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters saying, “Righteous are You, who is and who was, O Holy One, because You judged these things;" 
Revelation16:6 for they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and You have given them blood to drink. They deserve it.”" 
Revelation16:7 And I heard the altar saying, “Yes, O Lord God, the Almighty, true and righteous are Your judgments.”" 
Revelation16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun, and it was given to it to scorch men with fire." 
Revelation16:9 And men were scorched with fierce heat, and they blasphemed the name of God who has the authority over these plagues, and they did not repent so as to give Him glory." 
Revelation16:10 Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues because of pain," 
Revelation16:11 and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and they did not repent of their deeds." 
Revelation16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river, the Euphrates, and its water was dried up, so that the way would be prepared for the kings from the east." 
Revelation16:13 Then I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs;" 
Revelation16:14 for they are spirits of demons, doing signs, which go out to the kings of the whole world, to gather them together for the war of the great day of God, the Almighty." 
Revelation16:15 (“Behold, I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake and keeps his garments, so that he will not walk about naked and men will not see his shame.”)" 
Revelation16:16 And they gathered them together to the place which in Hebrew is called Har-Magedon. 
Revelation16:17 Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl upon the air, and a loud voice came out of the sanctuary from the throne, saying, “It is done.”" 
Revelation16:18 And there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder; and there was a great earthquake, such as there had not been since man came to be upon the earth, so great an earthquake was it, and so mighty." 
Revelation16:19 And the great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the great was remembered before God, to give her the cup of the wine of the wrath of His rage." 
Revelation16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found." 
Revelation16:21 And huge hailstones, about one talent each, came down from heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, because its plague was extremely severe." 
Revelation17:1 Then one of the seven angels who have the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, “Come here, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters," 
Revelation17:2 with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality, and those who dwell on the earth were made drunk with the wine of her sexual immorality.”" 
Revelation17:3 And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness; then I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast, full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns." 
Revelation17:4 And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a gold cup full of abominations and of the unclean things of her sexual immorality," 
Revelation17:5 and on her forehead a name was written, a mystery, “BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.”" 
Revelation17:6 Then I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. When I saw her, I wondered greatly." 
Revelation17:7 And the angel said to me, “Why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns." 
Revelation17:8 “The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will wonder when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will come." 
Revelation17:9 Here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits," 
Revelation17:10 and they are seven kings; five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he must remain a little while." 
Revelation17:11 And the beast which was and is not, is himself also an eighth and is one of the seven, and he goes to destruction." 
Revelation17:12 And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but they receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour." 
Revelation17:13 These have one purpose, and they give their power and authority to the beast." 
Revelation17:14 These will wage war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because He is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those who are with Him are the called and elect and faithful.”" 
Revelation17:15 And he said to me, “The waters which you saw where the harlot sits, are peoples and crowds and nations and tongues." 
Revelation17:16 And the ten horns which you saw, and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will lay waste to her and make her naked, and will eat her flesh and will burn her up with fire." 
Revelation17:17 For God gave it in their hearts to do His purpose both by doing their own common purpose and by giving their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God will be finished." 
Revelation17:18 And the woman whom you saw is the great city, which has a kingdom over the kings of the earth.”" 
Revelation18:1 After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was illumined with his glory." 
Revelation18:2 And he cried out with a mighty voice, saying, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! And she has become a dwelling place of demons and a prison of every unclean spirit, and a prison of every unclean bird and a prison of every unclean and hateful beast." 
Revelation18:3 For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich by the power of her sensuality.”" 
Revelation18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, “Come out of her, my people, so that you will not participate in her sins and receive of her plagues;" 
Revelation18:5 for her sins have piled up as high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities." 
Revelation18:6 Pay her back even as she paid, and give her back double according to her deeds; in the cup which she has mixed, mix double for her." 
Revelation18:7 To the degree that she glorified herself and lived sensuously, to the same degree give her torment and mourning, for she says in her heart, ‘I sit as a queen and I am not a widow, and will never see mourning.’" 
Revelation18:8 For this reason in one day her plagues will come, pestilence and mourning and famine, and she will be burned up with fire; for the Lord God who judges her is strong." 
Revelation18:9 “And the kings of the earth, who committed sexual immorality and lived sensuously with her, will cry and lament over her when they see the smoke of her burning," 
Revelation18:10 standing at a distance because of the fear of her torment, saying, ‘Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city! For in one hour your judgment has come.’" 
Revelation18:11 “And the merchants of the earth cry and mourn over her, because no one buys their cargo anymore—" 
Revelation18:12 cargo of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, and every kind of citron wood and every article of ivory and every article made from precious wood and bronze and iron and marble," 
Revelation18:13 and cinnamon and amomum and incense and perfume and frankincense and wine and olive oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep, and cargo of horses and carriages and human beings and human lives." 
Revelation18:14 And the fruit you long for has gone from you, and all things that were splendid and shining have passed away from you and men will no longer find them." 
Revelation18:15 The merchants of these things, who became rich from her, will stand at a distance because of the fear of her torment, crying and mourning," 
Revelation18:16 saying, ‘Woe, woe, the great city, she who was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls;" 
Revelation18:17 for in one hour such great wealth has been laid waste!’ And every shipmaster and every passenger and sailor, and as many as make their living by the sea, stood at a distance," 
Revelation18:18 and were crying out as they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, ‘What is like the great city?’" 
Revelation18:19 And they threw dust on their heads and were crying out, crying and mourning, saying, ‘Woe, woe, the great city, in which all who have ships at sea became rich by her wealth, for in one hour she has been laid waste!’" 
Revelation18:20 Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets, because God has pronounced judgment for you against her.”" 
Revelation18:21 Then a strong angel picked up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, “So will Babylon, the great city, be thrown down with violence, and will not be found any longer." 
Revelation18:22 And the sound of harpists and musicians and flute-players and trumpeters will not be heard in you any longer; and no craftsman of any craft will be found in you any longer; and the sound of a mill will not be heard in you any longer; 
Revelation18:23 and the light of a lamp will not shine in you any longer; and the voice of the bridegroom and bride will not be heard in you any longer; for your merchants were the great men of the earth, because all the nations were deceived by your sorcery." 
Revelation18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who have been slain on the earth.” 
Revelation19:1 After these things I heard something like a loud voice of a great crowd in heaven, saying, “Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God;" 
Revelation19:2 because His judgments are true and righteous; for He has judged the great harlot who was corrupting the earth with her sexual immorality, and He has avenged the blood of His slaves shed by her hand.”" 
Revelation19:3 And a second time they said, “Hallelujah! Her smoke rises up forever and ever.”" 
Revelation19:4 And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne saying, “Amen. Hallelujah!”" 
Revelation19:5 And a voice came from the throne, saying, “Give praise to our God, all you His slaves, you who fear Him, the small and the great.”" 
Revelation19:6 Then I heard something like the voice of a great crowd and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder, saying, “Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns." 
Revelation19:7 Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory to Him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come and His bride has made herself ready.”" 
Revelation19:8 And it was given to her to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and clean; for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints." 
Revelation19:9 Then he said to me, “Write, ‘Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.’” And he said to me, “These are true words of God.”" 
Revelation19:10 Then I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me, “Do not do that! I am a fellow slave with you and your brothers who have the witness of Jesus. Worship God! For the witness of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.”" 
Revelation19:11 Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and He who sits on it is called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and wages war." 
Revelation19:12 His eyes are a flame of fire, and on His head are many diadems; having a name written on Him which no one knows except Himself," 
Revelation19:13 and being clothed with a garment dipped in blood, His name is also called The Word of God." 
Revelation19:14 And the armies which are in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, were following Him on white horses." 
Revelation19:15 And from His mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it He may strike down the nations, and He will rule them with a rod of iron; and He treads the wine press of the wrath of the rage of God, the Almighty." 
Revelation19:16 And He has on His garment and on His thigh a name written, “KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.”" 
Revelation19:17 Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds which fly in midheaven, “Come, assemble for the great supper of God," 
Revelation19:18 so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of commanders and the flesh of strong men and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them and the flesh of all men, both free men and slaves, and small and great.”" 
Revelation19:19 Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to make war with Him who sits on the horse and with His army. 
Revelation19:20 And the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet who did the signs in his presence, by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire which burns with brimstone." 
Revelation19:21 And the rest were killed with the sword which came from the mouth of Him who sits on the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh." 
Revelation20:1 Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand." 
Revelation20:2 And he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years;" 
Revelation20:3 and he threw him into the abyss, and shut it and sealed it over him, so that he would not deceive the nations any longer, until the thousand years were finished. After these things he must be released for a short time." 
Revelation20:4 Then I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their witness of Jesus and because of the word of God, and who also had not worshiped the beast or his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand. And they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years." 
Revelation20:5 The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. 
Revelation20:6 Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with Him for a thousand years." 
Revelation20:7 And when the thousand years are finished, Satan will be released from his prison," 
Revelation20:8 and will come out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war; the number of them is like the sand of the seashore." 
Revelation20:9 And they came up on the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, and fire came down from heaven and devoured them." 
Revelation20:10 And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are also, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever." 
Revelation20:11 Then I saw a great white throne and Him who sits upon it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them." 
Revelation20:12 Then I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books, according to their deeds." 
Revelation20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds." 
Revelation20:14 Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire." 
Revelation20:15 And if anyone’s name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire." 
Revelation21:1 Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there is no longer any sea." 
Revelation21:2 And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband." 
Revelation21:3 And I heard a loud voice from the throne, saying, “Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and He will dwell among them, and they shall be His people, and God Himself will be among them," 
Revelation21:4 and He will wipe away every tear from their eyes; and there will no longer be any death; there will no longer be any mourning, or crying, or pain. The first things passed away.”" 
Revelation21:5 And He who sits on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” And He said, “Write, for these words are faithful and true.”" 
Revelation21:6 Then He said to me, “They are done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without cost." 
Revelation21:7 He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God and he will be My son." 
Revelation21:8 But for the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and sexually immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.”" 
Revelation21:9 Then one of the seven angels who have the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, “Come here, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”" 
Revelation21:10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God," 
Revelation21:11 having the glory of God. Her brilliance was like precious stone, as a stone of crystal-clear jasper." 
Revelation21:12 It had a great and high wall. It had twelve gates and at those gates, twelve angels; and names have been written on those gates, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel." 
Revelation21:13 There were three gates on the east and three gates on the north and three gates on the south and three gates on the west. 
Revelation21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundation stones, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb." 
Revelation21:15 And the one who spoke with me had a gold measuring rod to measure the city and its gates and its wall. 
Revelation21:16 And the city is laid out as a square, and its length is as great as the width; and he measured the city with the rod, 12,000 stadia; its length and width and height are equal." 
Revelation21:17 And he measured its wall, 144 cubits, according to human measurements, which are also angelic measurements." 
Revelation21:18 And the material of the wall was jasper, and the city was pure gold, like pure glass." 
Revelation21:19 The foundation stones of the city wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation stone was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;" 
Revelation21:20 the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; the twelfth, amethyst." 
Revelation21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; each one of the gates was a single pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass." 
Revelation21:22 And I saw no sanctuary in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its sanctuary." 
Revelation21:23 And the city has no need of the sun or of the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God has illumined it, and its lamp is the Lamb." 
Revelation21:24 And the nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it." 
Revelation21:25 And its gates will never be closed by day, for there will be no night there;" 
Revelation21:26 and they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it. 
Revelation21:27 And nothing defiled, and no one who practices abomination and lying, shall ever come into it, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb’s book of life." 
Revelation22:1 Then he showed me a river of the water of life, bright as crystal, coming from the throne of God and of the Lamb," 
Revelation22:2 in the middle of its street. On either side of the river was the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations." 
Revelation22:3 And there will no longer be any curse; and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His slaves will serve Him;" 
Revelation22:4 and they will see His face, and His name will be on their foreheads." 
Revelation22:5 And there will no longer be any night, and they will not have need of the light of a lamp nor the light of the sun, because the Lord God will illumine them, and they will reign forever and ever." 
Revelation22:6 And he said to me, “These words are faithful and true”; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent His angel to show to His slaves the things which must soon take place." 
Revelation22:7 “And behold, I am coming quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”" 
Revelation22:8 I, John, am the one who was hearing and seeing these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things." 
Revelation22:8 I, John, am the one who was hearing and seeing these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things." 
Revelation22:9 But he said to me, “Do not do that! I am a fellow slave with you and your brothers the prophets and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God!”" 
Revelation22:10 And he said to me, “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near." 
Revelation22:11 Let the one who does unrighteousness, still do unrighteousness; and the one who is filthy, still be filthy; and let the one who is righteous, still do righteousness; and the one who is holy, still keep himself holy.”" 
Revelation22:12 “Behold, I am coming quickly, and My reward is with Me, to render to every man according to his work." 
Revelation22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.”" 
Revelation22:14 Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the authority to the tree of life and may enter by the gates into the city." 
Revelation22:15 Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the sexually immoral persons and the murderers and the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices lying." 
Revelation22:16 “I, Jesus, sent My angel to bear witness to you of these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.”" 
Revelation22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, “Come.” And let the one who hears say, “Come.” And let the one who is thirsty come. Let the one who wishes receive the water of life without cost." 
Revelation22:18 I bear witness to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this book." 
Revelation22:19 And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and from the holy city, which are written in this book." 
Revelation22:20 He who bears witness to these things says, “Yes, I am coming quickly.” Amen. Come, Lord Jesus." 
